PLANNING COMMISSION
City of Holladay
March 3, 2026
City Council Chambers – 4580 S. 2300 E. Holladay

This public meeting will be held in-person and also transmitted via live video stream on the City of Holladay webpage.
Participation in a public hearing portion of this meeting can be accomplished in either of the following ways:

    • During the meeting: address the Commission when the item is called by the Commission Chair
    • Email: comments must be received by 5:00 pm on 03/02/2026 to the Community and Economic Development
       Department; cmarsh@holladayut.gov. Emailed comments will be read by the Commission Chair.


MEETING AGENDA

    5:30 PM      WORK SESSION – All agenda items may be discussed. No decisions or voting to occur.

    6:00 PM      CONVENE REGULAR MEETING – Public Welcome & Chair Opening Statement

PUBLIC HEARING

        1.       “Bowthorpe House” – Historic Site Conditional Land Use Permit – 4910 S Holladay Blvd (R-2-10)
                 Continued review and consideration of a request by the property owner, for modifications to and
                 additional land use for this historic site. Item reviewed as conditional use as per provisions stated in
                 Holladay Ordinance §13.86.030 and §13.08.040                                                   File #26-02-01

        2.       Partial Vacation of a Public Street – 2755 East Hillsden
                 Review and recommendation to city council of a request by Applicant Rock Shutjer as abutting Owner, to
                 vacate a portion of unused public street located at this address. The area under consideration is proposed
                 to be adjusted to meet the standard street width of 55 feet rather than the current 66 feet. If approved the
                 difference in area vacated is proposed to be deeded to abutting property owners. This item reviewed as a
                 legislative application as per provisions stated in Holladay Ordinance §13.10A.150B and in compliance
                 with Utah Code Annotated §10.9a.906.5                                                         File #26-1-01

        3.       “Royal Holladay Hills, Block H, I, & J” –Preliminary Plan – 1950 E Rodeo Walk Dr. (R-M/U Zone)
                 Concept and Preliminary Review and consideration of development/construction details submitted by
                 Applicant, Steve Peterson for the Blocks H, I and J within the Royal Holladay Hills mixed-use
                 development. Review conducted according to regulatory provisions of the Site Development Master Plan
                 (SDMP 2007) and Holladay Ordinance §13.65.070(C).                                      File #19-9-19-11


ADJOURN


CERTIFICATE OF POSTING

I, Stephanie N. Carlson, the City Recorder of the City of Holladay, certify that the above agenda notice was posted on the City of
Holladay bulletin board, the City website www.holladayut.gov, the Utah Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn, and was emailed
to the Salt Lake Tribune and Desert News and others who have indicated interest.

DATE POSTED: [DAY, MONTH DATE, 2026 @ TIME AM/PM]

Stephanie N. Carlson MMC, City Recorder
City of Holladay

Reasonable accommodations for individuals with disabilities or those in need of language interpretation service can be provided upon
request. For assistance, please call the City Recorder’s office at 272-9450 at least three days in advance. TTY/TDD number is
(801)270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #7-1-1
The Chair shall call the meeting to order at the appropriate time, greet the people, and read the
        following statement:

             •    The City of Holladay Planning Commission is a volunteer citizen board whose
                  function is to review land use plans and other special studies, make
                  recommendations to the City Council on proposed zoning map and ordinance
                  changes, and approve conditional uses and subdivisions.

             •    The Planning Commission does not initiate land use applications; rather acts on
                  applications as they are submitted. Commissioners do not meet with applicants
                  except at publicly noticed meetings.

             •    Commissioners attempt to visit each property on the agenda, where the location,
                  the nature of the neighborhood, existing structures and uses related to the
                  proposed change are noted.

             •    Decisions are based on observations, recommendations from the professional
                  planning staff, the City’s General Plan, zoning ordinance and other reports, by all
                  verbal and written comments, and by evidence submitted, all of which are part of
                  the public record.

             •    Meeting procedure can be found on the back of the agenda.
                     RULES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
               PLANNING COMMISSION FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS
The Planning Commission Chair or Vice Chair is the Presiding Officer and will conduct the hearing

   1.      INTRODUCTION. The Presiding Officer informs those attending of
           the procedure and order of business for the hearing.
   2.      STAFF PRESENTATION. City Staff briefly introduces the request that
           prompted the public hearing. The presentation shall not last more
           than five minutes.
   3.      SPONSER PRESENTATION. If desired, the applicant or his/her
           representative may also make a presentation. The presentation
           shall not last more than fifteen minutes.
   4.      PUBLIC COMMENT. The Presiding Officer asks for public comment
           on the matter before the Commission. Comments are limited to
           three minutes and speakers are allowed to speak only once.
           Speakers are requested to:
          (a) Complete the Citizen Comment Form
          (b) Wait until recognized before speaking
          (c) Come to the microphone and state their name and address for
               the record
          (d) Be brief and to the point
          (e) Not restate points made by other speakers
          (f) Address questions through the Presiding Officer
          (g) Confine remarks to the topic
          (h) Avoid personalities
After each citizen has spoken, Commission members may ask questions of the
participant before the Presiding Officer resumes or closes the hearing.

  5.       APPLICANT SUMMATION/RESPONSE. Following citizen comment
           and questions by the Commission, the applicant shall be given an
           opportunity to give up to fifteen minutes summation and/or
           response prior to closing of the public hearing.
  6.       CLOSING THE HEARING. If there is no further public comment,
           questions by Commission members, or final response by the
           applicant, the Presiding Officer shall conclude the hearing at least ten
           minutes in advance of a subsequently scheduled public hearing. The
           Commission may vote to extend the public hearing past the starting
           time of a subsequent public hearing.
  7.       CONSIDERATION OF ITEM. At the close of the public hearing, the
           Commission shall consider the item, discuss its merits and vote on
           the matter or vote to continue it at a future meeting.
Planning Commission
Community Development
Department City of Holladay
801.527.3890

 FILE# 26-01-02                                      BOWTHORPE HOME - HISTORICAL MODIFICATIONS AND USE CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT


 ADDRESS:                                                          DECISION TYPE:
  4910 S Holladay Blvd.                                            Administrative:

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION: 22-10-255-025                                  Public hearing required. PC shall make a motion of either,
  BBEG N 89^51'02" W 1131.52 FT & N 0^07'25" W 748.7 FT FR E
                                                                   denial, approval or to continue. All motions require findings
  1/4 COR SEC 10, T 2S, R 1E, S L M; N 88^59'53" W 147.99 FT       which support the decision. As directed by ordinance,
  MOR L; N 19^15'36" E 73.08 FT; N 61^11' E 137.7 FT; S 0^11'55"
  E 137.95 FT TO BEG. LESS STREET 0.21 AC 5580-1385                applications shall be approved if the Land Use Authority
  5764-1182 6487-2742 6558-1174 7757-2919 8138-1523 8153-0445
  8153-0447 8325-2821 8332-4602 8459-6962 8461-7634 8558-2775      finds Substantial Evidence of compliance with applicable
  9745-1937 9803-3049 10198-6940 10561-5774 10598-7238             requirements. Holladay Ord. 13.06.050.B2 and 13.08
 APPLICANT/REPRESENTATIVE:
  Hillary Taylor                                                   SITE VICINITY MAP

 PROPERTY OWNER:
  Victorian Summer Hill, LLC

 ZONING:
  R-2-10

 GENERAL PLAN DISTRICT:
  Low Density Residential
 CITY COUNCIL DISTRICT:
  District #5
 PUBLIC NOTICE DETAILS:
  Mailed 1/29/26
 REQUEST:
  Conditional Use Permit

 APPLICABLE REGULATIONS:
  13.03.020 CONDITIONAL USE- SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS
  13.03.020 CONDITIONAL USE- SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS
  13.08.040 CUP STANDARDS
  13.86 HISTORIC PRESERVATION
  13.76.730 HOME OCCUPATIONS



 EXHIBITS:
  Zone map
  Staff Report
  Applicant Narrative
  Applicant supporting doc.
                                                                   Notes:




 STAFF:
  Carrie Marsh, City Planner

                                                                                                                             1
              NOTICE OF A RESCHEDULED PUBLIC HEARING
                      CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
                  Historic Site Use and Modifications
 Date:                          Tuesday, February 17th, 2026
 Time:                          As close to 6:00 pm as possible
 Location:                      City Hall – City Council Chambers
 Hearing Body:                  Planning Commission

Notice is hereby given that the City of Holladay Planning Commission will
review and consider a proposal for a Conditional Use Permit seeking use
of the property for a professional office and residential dwelling, and
building modifications to the William J. Bowthorpe Home, a designated
historic site, located at 4910 S. Holladay Blvd in the R-2-10 zone. The
proposal for use and exterior modifications are to be reviewed in
accordance with provisions in Holladay City Code Section 13.86.

**No zone or ordinance change is proposed in conjunction with the/this application. **

Please submit comments via email by 5:00 pm 02/16/2026 to Carrie Marsh,
cmarsh@holladayut.gov; City Planner. Emailed comments received by the
designated times will be forwarded to the Commission prior to the meeting.

Additional information regarding this item & instructions how to view this
meeting remotely can be found on the City’s website and on the posted
agenda, prior to the meeting. Interested parties are encouraged to watch
the video stream of the meeting on the City of Holladay webpage.
ATTENTION: This notice was mailed on 01/29/2026 by order of the Community and Economic Development Director,
Jonathan Teerlink, to all residents within 500 feet from the subject property. If you are not the owner of your residence,
please notify the owner regarding this matter. Thank you.




               NOTICE OF A RESCHEDULED PUBLIC HEARING
                        CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
                    Historic Site Use and Modifications
  Date:                           Tuesday, February 17th, 2026
  Time:                           As close to 6:00 pm as possible
  Location:                       City Hall – City Council Chambers
  Hearing Body:                   Planning Commission
Notice is hereby given that the City of Holladay Planning Commission will
review and consider a proposal for a Conditional Use Permit seeking use
of the property for a professional office and residential dwelling, and
building modifications to the William J. Bowthorpe Home, a designated
historic site, located at 4910 S. Holladay Blvd in the R-2-10 zone. The
proposal for use and exterior modifications are to be reviewed in
accordance with provisions in Holladay City Code Section 13.86.

**No zone or ordinance change is proposed in conjunction with the/this application. **

Please submit comments via email by 5:00 pm 02/16/2026 to Carrie Marsh,
cmarsh@holladayut.gov; City Planner. Emailed comments received by the
designated times will be forwarded to the Commission prior to the meeting.

Additional information regarding this item & instructions how to view this
meeting remotely can be found on the City’s website and on the posted
agenda, prior to the meeting. Interested parties are encouraged to watch
the video stream of the meeting on the City of Holladay webpage.

ATTENTION: This notice was mailed on 01/29/2026 by order of the Community and Economic Development Director,
Jonathan Teerlink, to all residents within 500 feet from the subject property. If you are not the owner of your residence,
please notify the owner regarding this matter. Thank you.
                             NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay Planning Commission will hold a public
hearing on Tuesday, the 17th day of February 2026 and continued to Tuesday the 3rd
day of March 2026, as close to 6:00 P.M. as possible. The purpose of the hearing is to open
a comment period while the commission considers a conditional use application for modifications
to a designated historical structure and its use as an office space. The home is known as the
William Bowethopre House, located at 4910 S. Holladay Blvd. Holladay, Utah.

The request is to evaluate modifications made to the home and for the use of the property as both
a residence and an office in accordance with standards for historic sites in Chapter §13.86 of the
City of Holladay Municipal Code and the approval standards for a conditional use permit outlined
in Chapter §13.08.040 of the City of Holladay Municipal Code.

The packet with information regarding this application will be available for public inspection on
the City’s website www.holladayut.gov and at the Community Development Dept. during normal
business hours three days prior to the scheduled meeting.


The public can remotely watch the Live Stream of the meeting. To provide a public comment or
to comment on any public hearing, you have the following options:
1. In-person attendance at Holladay City Hall or
2. Email your comments by 5:00 PM on the date of the meeting to cmarsh@holladayut.gov or
call 801-527-3890.




CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I, Stephanie N. Carlson, the City Recorder of the City of Holladay, certify that the
above agenda notice was posted at City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov the
Utah Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn, and was emailed to the Salt Lake
Tribune and Desert News and others who have indicated interest.

DATE POSTED: [ date ]
Stephanie N. Carlson MMC,
City Recorder City of Holladay
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
                                           City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                           Planning and Zoning


             PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT- ADDENDUM
                                                 March 3, 2026

ITEM # 1
Request: Conditional Use Permit – Historical Site Use and Modifications
Project: “Bowthorpe Historic House” Historical Site Use and Modifications to the Structure
Address: 4910 S Holladay Blvd, R-2-10 zone
Applicant: Hillary Taylor
File No.: 26-2-01
Notice: Mailed Notice January 29, 2026
Staff: Carrie Marsh

GOVERNING ORDINANCES:
13.03.020               CONDITIONAL USE- SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS
13.08.040               CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REVIEW/APPROVAL STANDARDS
13.86                   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
13.76.730               HOME OCCUPATIONS


REQUIRED PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION: Administrative
Public hearing to be held. PC shall make a motion of either, denial, approval or to continue. All motions
require findings which support the decision. As directed by ordinance, applications shall be approved if
the Land Use Authority finds Substantial Evidence of compliance with applicable approval standards and
requirements. Holladay Ord. 13.08.040

SUMMARY
This report provides additional information from the commission’s meeting held on February
17th meeting

The City of Holladay Code §13.86 addresses Historic Preservation within the City. This section of
code designates sites and applies standards and additional uses specifically applicable to these
sites. A conditional use permit is required for any modifications relating to the site or structure
and for additional uses. The consideration at this address is required to be reviewed as two
separate conditional use permits;

1) MODIFICATIONS
   Modifications are defined in §13.86.065 as:
        “Demolition or construction where a demolition or building permit is required. Modification also
        includes substantial changes to landscape, fencing, or appearance of a historic site. Modification
        does not include minor changes to landscape, fencing, or appearance of a historic site such as
        painting the historic site substantially the same color, changes to flowerbeds, or trimming.”


“Bowthorpe House” Historical Site Modifications and Use
                                                                                               Page 1 of 8
                                           City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                            Planning and Zoning



Upon receipt of the application, it was reviewed by the Technical Review Committee and
determined that the changes to the structure and site met the definition of modification within
§13.86.065, requiring review by the Planning Commission for a Conditional Use Permit.

As designated in §13.86.050: SITE MODIFICATION,
       “the Planning Commission may modify all yard, parking, landscaping, height, and other
       requirement of the zone in which the historic site is located, as necessary to fulfill the purposes of
       this chapter. In so doing, the nature and character of adjacent properties shall be considered to
       ensure that the health, safety, convenience, and general welfare will not be impaired. The
       Planning Commission may establish development criteria to control impacts associated with the
       heaviest permitted use in the base zone, including but not limited to: noise, glare, dust, or odor.”
ADDITIONAL USES
      The applicant is seeking approval for use of the property as a small office space in
      addition to a residential use. The planning commission may consider additional land uses
      for historic site sustainability. This use is similar to a Home Occupation but as the
      property is not the owner’s primary residence, an office use/rental is proposed.

13.86.060: ADDITIONAL USES FOR HISTORIC SITES:
       A. Residential And Forestry Zones: The planning commission may approve any of the following
       uses for a historic site in addition to the permitted and conditional uses allowed in the forestry or
       residential zone in which the site is located:
           Antique shop.
           Art shop.
           Boarding house.
           Child nursery.
           Dental office or clinic.
           Dwelling, single-, two-, three-, four- or multiple-family (in addition to a maximum of sixteen
       (16) units per acre).
           Nursing home.
           Office.
           Private educational institution.
           Reception centers.
           Restaurant.
           Other uses of similar intensity to the above.

Upon receipt of the application, it was reviewed by the Technical Review Committee and
determined that the uses proposed by the applicant are within the allowed additional uses
within §13.86.060, requiring review by the Planning Commission for a Conditional Use Permit.




“Bowthorpe House” Historical Site Modifications and Use
                                                                                                 Page 2 of 8
                                         City of Holladay
                               Community and Economic Development
                                         Planning and Zoning

BACKGROUND
Holladay has multiple historical properties and locations which are designated within the City
Code. The property owner is seeking a conditional use permit for a proposed use as a
professional office and non-owner-occupied residential dwelling in addition to making
modifications to the structure and landscaping.

The property is listed on the “Century Register” Utah Historic Homes on February 9, 1972. The
Century Register is an honorary list that designates pioneer homes built before 1900. This list
has no benefits or restrictions associated with it other than being recognized as a historic site.

The Utah Historic Buildings Collection interactive map references two property records for the
home, #69794 and #69019 and has some informational details provided for each.

Property Record #69019 does not have documents associated with it that could be found. The
informational details on the interactive map details the home style as “Victorian Eclectic” with a
cross-wing floor plan. It also identifies that is an eligible/contributing property in a National
Register of Historic Places Evaluation, as identified in a referenced December 1991
Reconnaissance Survey (RLS). The RLS report mentions the William J Bowthorp home’s history,
including the year of construction and Mr. Bowthorp’s immigration to and community role in
Holladay. Relevant pages from that report are included as supporting documentation.
Property record #69794 is accessible through the University of Utah J. Willard Marriott Digital
Library. This state historic file documents are included in the packet for review and provides
some basic information regarding the home from the daughter of William Bowthorpe, Hazel
Bowthorpe, who owned the home at the time. This state record is the only record the city has
on file for this property.

The following points are a summary of the property’s history:

   •   The home was designed and constructed in 1877 by William J. Bowthorpe, who
       immigrated from England to Utah in 1853.
   •   The house was constructed with a rock foundation and adobe walls.
   •   Mr. Bowthorpe operated sawmills in the nearby canyons and engaged in farming,
       supplying dairy products, fruit, and vegetables to nearby residents.
   •   A brick addition was made to the rear of the home between its original construction and
       when it was placed on the Century Register in 1972.
   •   Hazel Bowthorpe noted that “the adobe walls, gingerbread trim, picket fence, and mystic
       blue spruce help maintain much of the original charm” in the application for inclusion on
       the Century Register.




“Bowthorpe House” Historical Site Modifications and Use
                                                                                         Page 3 of 8
                                         City of Holladay
                               Community and Economic Development
                                         Planning and Zoning

   •   While a nomination form for inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places is
       included in the file, it does not appear that the form was ever submitted as the property
       is not present on the map or list of National Historic Places.
   •   The property is identified as having historic importance withing the City in the General
       Plan’s Historic Preservation section of Chapter 2; Land Use, Urban Design, and
       Neighborhood Preservation (Page 12).

The applicant applied for a building permit in 2022 which included the removal and rebuilding
of a wall on the east side that had significant structural damage due to water. The structural
issues and basis of removal are discussed in the applicant’s presentation. The building footprint
and architectural elevations that were submitted with the building permit are included at the
end of this report. Architectural elevations did not show any significant exterior modifications
except the removal of the porch roof and carrying of the arched window design that is present
on the north-east and north brick walls.

An understanding of historical architectural elements in the Victorian Era in Utha is summarized
from several sources in Chapter 4 of Salt Lake City’s Historic Preservation Guide. While not a
formal standard for the City of Holladay, it is a helpful reference of architecture within a Utah
specific context. Pages 1-14 are included for reference following this report as there is relevant
information and pictures regarding windows, porches, and wood siding.

Utah’s Historic Architecture from 1847 to 1940 by Thomas Carter and Peter Goss and published
by the Utah State Historical Society is also a helpful time-period specific architectural reference
with many visual examples of common floor plans and exterior styles. A link to the online form
of the guide is included. (https://issuu.com/utah10/docs/utah_s_historic_architecture_1847-
1/118)

APPLICANT / PROPERTY SUMMARY
Applicant and owner, Hillary Taylor, is seeking the use of the site as a professional office and
non-owner-occupied residential dwelling, in addition to architectural and site modifications
that have already been completed. These modifications are summarized in the letter of intent
and detailed in a visual presentation. Below is a summary of the modifications presented by the
applicant:

Existing Building:
    1. Maintenance to stop current and prevent future damage from termites
    2. Replacement of leaking roof
    3. Removal of a porch roof addition added in the 20th century, which caused damage to
        the front adobe wall and old brick.
    4. Installation of new front porch centered over doorway


“Bowthorpe House” Historical Site Modifications and Use
                                                                                         Page 4 of 8
                                         City of Holladay
                               Community and Economic Development
                                         Planning and Zoning

   5. Replacement of east adobe wall that was failing
   6. Replacement of floor joists with soil contact; new joists have contact with new footings
       and foundation
   7. Framing interior walls for installation of electrical and insulation and also provide
       support of interior walls (engineering plans created and stamped by a licensed engineer)
   8. Windows replaced on north and south walls of home due to leaking vinyl windows
   9. New interior and exterior doors
   10. Widening and replacement of front door with a double set door with glass panels;
       replacing doors that were not original to home
   11. Replacement of existing vinyl siding to 90 degree siding.
   12. Carried new siding to brick portions on the north-east and north sides where brick was
       damaged and crumbling
   13. Interior moldings, floors, and walls restoration
   14. Renovation of exterior stairs to apartment unit to increase safety and cohesive,
       historical appearance.
   15. Restoration of trim and woodwork on exterior
   16. Placement of arched windows in framed instead of rectangular with an arched
       decorative fill
   17. Added molding and trim around windows

Site Work:
    1. Installation of French drains and landscaping to correct drainage on east of home
    2. Removal of dead trees
    3. New trees were added in front of home and on exterior entrance outside of wall and
       gate

Property Use Details:
   • An addition added to the back of the home is a residential dwelling unit. The driveway
      and two car garage are accessed from Cottonwood Lane. This addition will continue to
      be used as a residential dwelling unit.
   • The historic part of the home that faces Holladay Blvd will be used as a professional
      office for the owner’s small design business with limited projects across the United
      State.
          o The firm has a few employees who would work occasionally at the office
              location.
          o Clients would be seen by appointment Monday through Friday during business
              hours
   • Six parking spaces are located on the property, accessed from Cottonwood Lane: 2 in
      the garage, 2 in the west driveway, and 1 in the north driveway.



“Bowthorpe House” Historical Site Modifications and Use
                                                                                     Page 5 of 8
                                         City of Holladay
                               Community and Economic Development
                                         Planning and Zoning

   •   The owner may occasionally stay in the historical portion of the home or have guests
       stay as there is an upstairs bedroom and 2nd kitchen.
   •   No signage will be located on the property and the owner wishes to maintain a
       residential look and feel of the home.

TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTE ANALYSIS AND RECOMMENDATION
Technical Review Committee (TRC) finds that the application for a conditional use permit for
both the use of the building as a combined residential dwelling and professional office along
with modifications to the building and landscaping modification to a site listed on the Holladay
Historic Preservation to be complete, ready for final consideration by the Planning Commission.

The TRC recommends the PC to hold the required public hearing (as required in 13.08.040).
Public comments made should be considered as they relate to the set conditional approval
standards. Additional considerations or conditions, if any, should be applied carefully and
reasonably as per 13.08.040.F. The Holladay TRC has provided their suggesting findings and
conditions to consider. The CED Director has provided a summary of the proposed
modifications attached to this report and shall be considered together with the
recommendations in order to moderate discussion around noted items.

The modifications and use have been separated into two separate motions, with findings and
conditions related to each.

1. Conditional Use for Modifications to a Historic Property

Suggested Findings:
     1. Modifications are as noted in the summary of modifications report provided by the
        CED Director
     2. Modifications to the building and site are considered to be substantial as defined by
        13.86.050
     3. The owner made modifications to the home to remedy, preserve, and protect a
        deteriorating historical structure.
     4. Original brick and footprint is unaltered and covered with siding
     5. The decorative cedar shingles, trim, rake, eve, and corbels were all restored and
        replaced.
     6. New porch added with significant columns and molding
     7. Modifications increased safety for occupants of the structure
     8. Public right of way has been improved with cleaned up landscaping and the addition
        of new street trees.

Suggested Conditions of Approval:


“Bowthorpe House” Historical Site Modifications and Use
                                                                                      Page 6 of 8
                                         City of Holladay
                               Community and Economic Development
                                         Planning and Zoning

     1. Comply with all fire code and building safety codes requirements related to building
        modifications
     2. Lighting to comply with commercial lighting standards of Holladay code 13.84.060
     3. No signage for business use to be located on the property
     4. Provide a safe walking path connecting sidewalks on north and south sides of
        property.
     5. Provide construction details for how siding and porch was attached to show that these
        modifications are reversible and will not cause further damage to the original
        brick/adobe should a future owner wish to remove these elements
     6. Replanting of a mystic pine on the property
     7. Any additional conditions as discussed with the applicant during the meeting

SUGGESTED MOTIONS

“I motion the Holladay Planning Commission move to ___________ (APPROVE, DENY,
CONTINUE) the application for a Conditional Use Permit for a Historic Site Modification for the
“William J. Bowthorpe House”, designated as a historic site by section 13.86.020 of the City of
Holladay code, located at 4910 S. Holladay Blvd. Based upon the findings that the application
_________ (see above for staff suggested findings) and subject to the following
conditions_____________ (see above for staff suggested conditions, plus any additional
conditions as determined by the Commission)”


2. Conditional Use for Modifications to a Historic Property

Suggested Findings:
     1. The proposed use as a residential unit is similar in nature and intensity to those
        included within Chapter 13.86.060 “Additional Uses Allowed”
     2. The proposed use as a professional ofice is similar in nature and intensity to those
        included within Chapter 13.86.060 “Additional Uses Allowed”

Suggested Conditions of Approval:
     1. Comply with all fire code and building safety codes requirements prior to opening any
        office services in the building
     2. Obtain and maintain a Holladay Business License
     3. Lighting to comply with commercial lighting standards of Holladay code 13.84.060
     4. Hours of operation are 8:00 am to 6:00 pm
     5. Use is limited to a Professional and Business Services as defines and one residential
        Rental Dwelling as defined in Holladay Ord. 13.04. The occupancy thereof does not
        imply approval of Short-Term Rental uses.


“Bowthorpe House” Historical Site Modifications and Use
                                                                                      Page 7 of 8
                                         City of Holladay
                               Community and Economic Development
                                         Planning and Zoning

     6. No signage for business use to be located on the property
     7. Provide a safe walking path connecting sidewalks on north and south sides of
         property.
     8. Owner, tenants, and employees must park on site.
     9. All client parking to be located onsite.
     10. Any additional conditions as discussed with the applicant during the meeting


SUGGESTED MOTIONS

“I motion the Holladay Planning Commission move to ___________ (APPROVE, DENY,
CONTINUE) the application for a Conditional Use Permit for a Historic Site Use as combined
residential unit and professional office space for the “William J. Bowthorpe House”,
designated as a historic site by section 13.86.020 of the City of Holladay code, located at 4910 S.
Holladay Blvd. Based upon the findings that the application _________ (see above for staff
suggested findings) and subject to the following conditions_____________ (see above for staff
suggested conditions, plus any additional conditions as determined by the Commission)”




“Bowthorpe House” Historical Site Modifications and Use
                                                                                        Page 8 of 8
                                       City of Holladay
                              Community and Economic Development
2/2/2026

Technical Review Committee
City of Holladay

RE: HISTORIC MODIFICATON PERMIT: REVIEW & RECOMMENDATION,” BOWTHORPE HOME”

FILE: 26-2-01
Zone: R-2-10, Residential, Duplex
Property Location: 4910 South Holladay Blvd
Land Use: CUP – Historic Property Modification Permit, “Bowthorpe Home” – Historic Site

In accordance with Holladay Ordinances; §13.06.020, §13.08.040 and §13.86 the Holladay
Technical Review Committee (TRC) is requested to review a pending land use application for a
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT – HISTORIC SITE MODIFICATION. Please review the following
recommendation from the CED, Director in preparation for submission to the Planning
Commission.

In 1972, the Bowthorpe house was added to the “State of Utah Century Register” as a historic
Home Site. The designation is awarded in a letter from the State (1972) and verified by the A.
Kent Pownell as, “an honorary listing designating pioneer homes built before the Turn of the
Century” (State of Utah Department of Community and Economic Development, 1981). The
home was later added to the Holladay Historic listings.

Built in 1877, the single-story home in its original form is an example of a cross-wing type cottage
prevalent in late 1800s to early 1900s. Its front door, off the side of the main structure, features a
covered porch, and a façade (prior to modifications) featured subtle Victorian Eclectic features
window treatments (brick “eyebrow” over front window) and gable-end ordainment. The
property is uniquely situated near Spring Creek, where much of Holladay’s initial settlements
originated. The property is recorded as featuring later additions.

As no city file is available, which clearly describes the findings designating the home to the
Holladay list, the 1972 Century Register listing is used as a reference in this report. Those findings
are as follows.
    • *No images are found in this file.
    • The “front” of the home is historically fronting Holladay Blvd.
    • The home is noted to have construction patterns significant to the late 1800’s.
    • “Built with firm rock foundation and adobe walls.”




                              City of Holladay, 4580 South 2300 East, Holladay, Utah 84117
   •   “Designed and built by William J., Bowthorpe, in 1877. Bowthorpe’s migrated to Utah in
       1853. Once here, William Bowthorpe operated sawmills nearby. His farm supplied dairy,
       fruit and vegetables to residents of the area.”
   •   “Although a brick addition has been made to the rear of the home, the adobe walls,
       gingerbread trim, picket fence and majestic blue spruce help to maintain much of the
       original charm”
   •   The 1981 letter states that the site, “has no benefits or restrictions associated with it
       other than the fact that it is recognized as a historic site.”

Also, as a note, work by the property owner on this site has commenced without Planning
Commission approval.

LEVELS OF REVIEW

       1) §13.06.020; Determination of complete submittal
                 o Application is initiated by the property owner for modifications to a site
                      listed on the Holladay Historic Preservation.
                  o   Submittal includes complete application, fees, existing and proposed
                      elevations and landscaping plans and business operations description
                      (office) – application is found to be complete.

       2) §13.08; Conditional Use, Recommendation to Planning Commission
                 o Upon review by the TRC, the CED Director has determined the submittal to
                      be appropriate for consideration and notice for a public hearing before he
                      Planning Commission for final action.
                  o   Application considered as a CUP for a Historic Site Modification Permit and
                      Land Use Permit (as per §13.86.030).

       3) §13.86; Historic Use, Modification Permit
                 o A conditional use permit is required for any modifications to a historic site
                      or structure, including modifications to the landscaping, fencing or
                      appearance of any lot, or demolition, construction, alteration, relocation,
                      improvement or conversion of a historic site.
                  o   A conditional use permit on a historic site shall be made in the manner and
                      subject to the procedures and requirements set forth in section 13.08.040.
                      To the extent that the requirements of that section are inconsistent, the
                      requirements of chapter 13.86 prevail.

       CED, Director’s findings and recommendation of proposed modifications.
                           Building Modifications
                                  • Exterior trim, window frames
                                        o In comparing historical descriptions of the site to the
                                           owners’ proposals, enhancements the gingerbread




                                                                                                   2
            City of Holladay
  Community and Economic Development
                trim, lintels and façade, may not be in keeping with
                Utah historic vernacular.
            o Window opens have been altered from the original,
                single double hung opening to a dual window which
                eliminated the “eyebrow” feature. Windows are
                generally a highlight of any historic property.
                Overtime, however, they quickly become an Achilles
                heel when striving to maintain energy efficiency and
                usability of a space/building. Retrofitting windows is
                a make-or-break element to any restoration project.
                As per the proposed elevations, a complete
                replacement of all windows is envisioned. Chosen
                styles are generally in keeping with the double hung
                operation of the original home. The trim treatments
                are found to be a contemporary interpretation of a
                west coast styling – not Utah specific.
     • Entrance doors
            o Existing front entrance door is of wood framing and
                unlikely original, based on historical images.
                Proposed replacements are similar in style and
                compliment the home by providing notable
                “heaviness” which complements the mass the
                building, especially from the street.
     • Entrance Porch Covering
            o The Bowthorpe home, as with other Utah homes in
                the late 1800s feature similar Victorian Eclectic
                porches spanning a wide entrance. The proposed
                heavy doric columns supporting a heavy entablature
                featuring a frieze decorated with dentils, and a
                cornice. All of which are not found in features of this
                scale of home in this period
            o Building ornamentation which intends to embellish
                the façade should be more aligned with Victorian
                forms of the late 1890s.
 Fencing Modification
            o Recommend modification approvals as proposed in
                accordance with Holladay fencing height regulations.
 Landscaping Modification
            o Currently, little to no landscaping is featured at this
                site in the application. Of note is the missing blue



   City of Holladay, 4580 South 2300 East, Holladay, Utah 84117
                                                spruce so prominently noted in the historical
                                                designation.
                                Site Modifications
                                     • Exterior deck access is proposed to be rebuilt with lattice
                                        and post ornamentation
                                Parking Lot Modifications
                                            o Apart from very minimal available parking, no major
                                                concerns with the modifications as proposed.

Prior to a motion, it is recommended that the Planning Commission hold the public hearing and
moderate a detailed discussion with the applicant on the following elements

             1. Work completed without approval leaves the planning commission left to
                  determine potential remediation of work to windows, trim and brick in order to
                  maintain Utah historic vernacular.
             2.   Overall basis of selected style shown in the applicant’s narrative
             3.   Replacement of structural eyebrow features with decorative lintel features above
                  primary windows.
             4.   Entrance porch design and scale of columns supporting the porch
             5.   Landscaping


Sincerely,


Jonathan Teerlink
CED, Director




                                                                                                     4
4 Historic Context & Architectural Styles

Introduction                                                          INTRODUCTION                             4:1

                                                                      HISTORIC OVERVIEW OF SALT LAKE CITY      4:2
Salt Lake City contains a multitude of architectural
styles. This rich architectural heritage enhances the                 CLASSICAL                                4:5

city, establishes its identity and provides a strong                  PICTURESQUE                              4:6
“sense of place.” It also provides clues about the                        GOTHIC REVIVAL                       4:7
evolution of Salt Lake City, in terms of the sequence                     ITALIANATE                           4:8
of development in different neighborhoods.
                                                                          SECOND EMPIRE                        4:9
This chapter provides a brief overview of various
                                                                      VICTORIAN ERA                           4 : 10
historic styles found in Salt Lake City. While this
                                                                          VICTORIAN ECLECTIC                  4 : 12
section makes reference to a wide range of styles
                                                                          QUEEN ANNE                          4 : 13
found here, it is not exhaustive. Architectural styles
may exist that are not included in this section.                          SHINGLE                             4 : 14

                                                                      PERIOD REVIVAL                          4 : 15
Property owners should review these descriptions
carefully. In many cases the design guidelines that                       SPANISH COLONIAL REVIVAL            4 : 16

follow make reference to the characteristics of                           TUDOR REVIVAL                       4 : 17
styles that are presented in this chapter. In some                        COLONIAL REVIVAL                    4 : 18
cases, specific design guidance is included in the                    		DUTCH COLONIAL REVIVAL                4 : 18
style description, depending on the prevalence of
                                                                      		GEORGIAN REVIVAL                      4 : 19
the style being described. For example, the section
                                                                      		NEOCLASSICAL REVIVAL                  4 : 19
on Bungalows provides special guidance because
the bungalow is a prevalent building type in many                     FOURSQUARE                              4 : 20

historic districts in Salt Lake City. The homeowner                   THE BUNGALOW                            4 : 22
is encouraged to use the styles section in analyzing                  MODERN                                  4 : 27
the overall historic character of his/her building,                       INTERNATIONAL                       4 : 27
as well as distinguishing its character-defining
                                                                          ART MODERNE                         4 : 28
features. This approach should aid the homeowner
                                                                      POST-WAR                                4 : 29
in choosing an appropriate design solution for any
                                                                          POST-WAR COTTAGE                    4 : 29
proposed work.
                                                                          RANCH                               4 : 30

                                                                      MULTI-FAMILY STRUCTURES                 4 : 31

                                                                      COMMERCIAL STRUCTURES                   4 : 34




A Preservation Handbook for Historic Residential Properties & Districts                              PART I     4:1
PART I        Preservation in Salt Lake City


Historic Overview of Salt Lake City                      Adobe, rather than wood, was the predominant
                                                         material in the Salt Lake valley from 1847 until fired
The story of Salt Lake City’s architectural past         bricks became available in the 1860s. We tend to
begins with its physical layout, which loosely           forget this because so few adobe structures from this
conformed to Joseph Smith’s Plat of the City of          period have survived and because log cabins are so
Zion. Salt Lake City was divided into blocks of 10       lovingly presented in public places. None other than
acres, with a block in the center reserved for the       Brigham Young, however, admonished against the
temple and wide streets of 132 feet. The blocks were     use of logs, stating that “log buildings do not make
divided into 8 lots of 1.25 acres each, enough to        a sightly city.” While adobe had the disadvantage
accommodate a family and the agricultural needs          that it could not withstand poor weather and
of everyday living, such as a vegetable garden, fruit    did not lend itself to complicated construction, it
trees and a few livestock and chickens. Residents        was cheap, if not free, and didn’t require skilled
travelled beyond the city wall at 900 South to farm      labor. It was used not only for homes, but also for
the land that leaders of the Church of Jesus Christ of   outbuildings, such as barns and sheds, and also for
Latter Day Saints had assigned to them; resources        public buildings, such as Social Hall.
such as timber and water were communally owned.
                                                         While the initial village layout prevailed, both
This system was designed to establish an efficient
                                                         physically and socially, throughout the 1860s, the
use of land and prevent social isolation. Although
                                                         city began to push beyond its original boundaries.
the blocks were later subdivided into smaller
                                                         The establishment of Fort Douglas in 1862, the
parcels and any semblance to its early appearance
                                                         activity of the Red Butte quarry, and the moving
as an agrarian village has long disappeared, Salt
                                                         of the slaughter yards in 1860 to the mouth of Dry
Lake City’s orderly pattern and wide streets identify
                                                         Canyon, drew residents eastward. Residents also
a planned community from its inception.
                                                         began to consider moving to the lower slopes of the
As in any new settlement isolated from an                Avenues and Capitol Hill to escape the noise and
industrial society, the early residents were driven      confusion of Main Street and South Temple; they
by expediency and thrift when it came to providing       had become     busy thorough-fares, as merchants
permanent     shelter.   Dwellings    were    simple:    travelled   between   the     Fort   and    downtown.
ornamentation was sparse, and floor plans consisted      Gradually people began to use fired brick instead of
of a “double pen,” “hall parlor,” or a “central          adobe.
hall”   arrangement.     Their   symmetry,   balance,
                                                         The biggest factor that affected architecture,
and simplicity displayed at a very basic level the
                                                         however, was the completion of the trans-continental
classicism associated with the Greek Revival style.
                                                         railroad in 1869. The built domain began to reflect
                                                         Salt Lake City’s new link to the outside world. Now
                                                         residents had access to the building guides, pattern
                                                         books and home magazines used nationally, as well
                                                         as the necessary materials to construct the homes
                                                         promoted in the literature.




4:2      PART I                                                                                     Salt Lake City
                                                         4 Historic Context and Architectural Styles


The railroad was the first, important step that                      Also by this time, Salt Lake City was home to
enabled Salt Lake residents to keep pace with                        several millionaires who had made great fortunes
the architectural mainstream. Access to national                     in mining and other industrial pursuits. They built
markets made for a more complex economy, one                         imposing residences, usually in classical styles such
based on cash, rather than trade, and based on                       as Renaissance, Classical and Georgian revival.
capitalism, instead of subsistence. Most notably for                 Although several still stand in Central City, Capitol
the territory, it opened up the mining industry. In                  Hill, and the Avenues, the most lavish were located
response to this economic development, Salt Lake                     on South Temple. Salt Lake’s prosperity attracted
City became more urban within a decade. A variety                    architects such as Richard Kletting, Walter Ware,
of styles, such as the Second Empire, Italianate, and                and Frederick Albert Hale. Their professional
Gothic Revival and the Queen Anne were used;                         training and experience coupled with their clients’
builders quickly produced the complicated floor                      means led to a new, more sophisticated approach to
plans, asymmetrical facades and mass-produced                        architecture. During the period from about 1895 to
ornamentation that were used in the late Victorian                   1915 these architects and others designed structures
era.                                                                 to house the new state’s institutions, such as the State

The    growth     of    the   city    led   to   municipal           Capitol, the public Library (later the planetarium

improvements such as better water distribution, the                  and now O.C. Tanner) and the University of Utah in

installation of gas lamps and electric street lights and             its current location, as well as clubs such as the Alta

a mass transportation system using electric railway                  and University clubs (the latter demolished in the

cars. This last development enabled people to live                   1960s) in which people could separate themselves

increasingly farther from where they worked and                      socially from the rest of society. The Salt Lake

resulted in the development of “streetcar suburbs,”                  Temple was completed in 1893; the construction

especially in the area southeast of Liberty Park.                    of the Cathedral of the Madeleine and the First

Class differences emerged and characterized many                     Presbyterian Church announced that other faiths

neighborhoods. In general, working class residents                   had a permanent stake in the city.

lived in Central City and west of the railroad tracks.
Professional, middle class people chose the Avenues
and outlying suburbs in which to build or purchase
homes — more expensive real estate because it was
quieter and located on the benches, out of the smog.
By the end of the 1880s, Salt Lake City had made
the transition from a theocratic utopia to a regional
center, one that looked like many other communities
west of the Mississippi.




A Preservation Handbook for Historic Residential Properties & Districts                                     PART I      4:3
PART I          Preservation in Salt Lake City


Concurrently, a steady influx of new residents          Bungalows and Period Revival cottages dominated
provided    a    healthy   market   for   residential   the residential building scene from the end of
development at the lower end. This occurred             World War I through the 1920s but with the onset
both at corporate and individual levels. James          of the Great Depression, the construction industry
Anderson founded the Anderson Realty Investment         ground to a halt. The few people who could afford
Corporation in 1892 and constructed many Victorian      to build a new home generally picked traditional
Eclectic houses, several of which can be seen along     designs, such as the Cape Cod cottage or a revival
300 South between 600 and 700 East. These were          style, such as Dutch Colonial. In rare instances the
substantial, two story structures with a boxy shape     International or Art Moderne styles were used.
that Anderson could build for about $3,200 and          After World War II birth rates soared. Construction
sell quickly at almost twice the price. Occasionally    boomed and new subdivisions were developed.
widows would subdivide their property and build         Unprecedented numbers of people could afford cars
two or three houses next door in order to get a         and the many new consumer goods that flooded
monthly income and make a capital investment.           the market. With the rise of the automobile, the
Such homes — either of professional developers or       popularity of the new suburb, and the encroachment
individuals — adhered to no particular style and        of commercial development east of downtown,
were designed according to the whim of the owner.       many of Salt Lake’s older neighborhoods began to
They might be a bungalow, a Foursquare or “box”         decline. But as usual, this trend reversed. People
type or display a Victorian influence                   grew weary of commuting and were disturbed
About 1900, developers began to invest in large         by the demolition of irreplaceable landmarks. A
apartment buildings. This was a new building            preservation ethic emerged and slowly people began
type for Salt Lake City — one that created a more       to take a second look at the city’s old buildings.
urban landscape and indicated a substantial shift in    They painstakingly restored historic homes and in
demographics. They attracted a variety of residents:    the process, revitalized neighborhoods. Today, these
the wealthy who didn’t want the trouble of owning       neighborhoods are Salt Lake City’s most desirable
a house; the widowed who didn’t need the space of       real estate. Much has been lost but even more has
a house, and people just starting out, who couldn’t     been saved.
afford a house. W.C.A. Vissing constructed several
buildings for the Covey Investment Company
and was the city’s most prolific apartment builder.
Elegant apartment buildings, such as the Maryland,
were constructed on South Temple, while others,
less prestigious but still comfortable, were located
east and north of downtown and in the Avenues.




4:4     PART I                                                                                 Salt Lake City
                                                         4 Historic Context and Architectural Styles


Classical
c. 1851-1885

Although long out of fashion in the eastern half of
the United States, variants of the classical styles,
Georgian, Federal and particularly Greek Revival,
continued to be popular in Utah into the 1880s. They
were familiar styles to pioneers arriving from New
England, upstate New York and the Midwest. These
styles are characterized by their symmetry and the
use of classical features: a wide frieze or fascia at
                                                                     Classical Porch, at central entry.
the cornice, pediments over the windows or doors
and round columns on porches. The homes from
this period are generally side-gabled, so that when
viewed from the side they resemble small temples.
Alternatively they sometimes have one-story, shed-
roof additions at the rear for a “salt-box” profile.

Characteristics

•   usually side-gabled massing, one or two rooms
    deep
                                                                     This is an unusual example of a front facing Greek Revival
•   one or two stories
                                                                     style building in the Capitol Hill Historic District. Despite the
•   symmetrical facade, with the entrance in the                     rarity of its orientation, its massing, stucco finish, pronounced
                                                                     wood cornices and fascia are clearly in keeping with this style
    middle
                                                                     and period.
•   stone foundations

•   smooth plaster walls or clapboard siding

•   two-over-two or one-over-one, double-hung
    windows

•   wood cornices and fascia

•   stone, projecting window sills

•   low-pitch roof with cornice returns

•   divided transoms over the doorways

•   one-story, shed-roof addition at rear




A Preservation Handbook for Historic Residential Properties & Districts                                           PART I         4:5
PART I           Preservation in Salt Lake City


                                                  Picturesque
                                                  c. 1865-1885

                                                  Nationally, Picturesque styles — especially the
                                                  Gothic Revival and the Italianate — represented in
                                                  part a rejection of the Greek Revival, which was seen
                                                  as being too discordant with the landscape and not
                                                  easy to remodel, especially for additions. During
                                                  the 1830s, a group of influential reformers called for
                                                  a house style that would reinforce righteous living,
                                                  that would help shore up Americans in the face of
Gothic Revival                                    social upheaval caused by westward expansion and
                                                  industrialization. Reformers wrote about residential
                                                  architecture in terms of morality, and different styles
                                                  were described as dishonest or honest. Locally,
                                                  residents might have been aware of the theory
                                                  behind the promotion of these styles, but it is more
                                                  likely they represented something fashionable, that
                                                  was newly available. The use of the Picturesque
                                                  styles pushed Salt Lake citizens a little closer to the
                                                  American mainstream, after enduring two decades
                                                  of isolation.




4:6       PART I                                                                           Salt Lake City
Picturesque                                              4 Historic Context and Architectural Styles


Gothic Revival
c. 1865-1880

According to Utah’s Historic Architecture, 1847-
1940, (Carter & Goss, 1998) the Gothic Revival
style was most popular in Utah during the 1870s,
and in a broader context, was part of the Romantic
movement that valued emotion over rational
thought. As a rejection of classicism the most vocal
proponent of this style, Andrew Jackson Downing,
emphasized vertical lines, deep colors and the use
of applied ornament. Few such homes exist in Salt
Lake’s historic districts but, because this style is so
unique in this area, they greatly contribute to the
architectural texture and richness of the city. Three
can be found along Quince Street in the Capitol Hill
Historic District; another, built in 1860, is located on
B Street in the Avenues Historic District.

Characteristics

•   steeply pitched roof
                                                                            Gothic Revival
•   cross gable roof plan, or

•   side gable roof plan with central cross gable
    over the door

•   clapboard or plaster siding

•   quoins

•   decorative barge board along eaves of main
    gables and dormers

•   two-over-two, double-hung sash windows

•   pediments over windows

•   bay windows

•   lancet windows

•   elaborate porch railings: turned posts, cut-out
    boards




A Preservation Handbook for Historic Residential Properties & Districts                      PART I   4:7
PART I           Preservation in Salt Lake City                                        Picturesque


                                                  Italianate
                                                  c. 1870-95

                                                  The Italianate style was introduced by Andrew
                                                  Jackson Downing in his 1850 publication, The
                                                  Architecture of Country Houses. He extolled the
                                                  virtues of the Gothic Revival, but offered the “villa,”
                                                  a version based on Italian country houses that
                                                  veered more toward classicism and did not have
                                                  the religious overtones of the Gothic Revival. The
                                                  style was used in Salt Lake after 1870, but it was not
                                                  widely used and few examples remain.

                                                  Characteristics

                                                  •   brick, wood clapboard, stucco

                                                  •   double-hung, narrow windows, often with
                                                      round arch heads
Italianate
                                                  •   window panes are either one-over-one or two-
                                                      over-two

                                                  •   protruding sills

                                                  •   ornate treatment of the eaves, including the use
                                                      of brackets, modillions and dentil courses

                                                  •   low-pitched, hipped roof

                                                  •   blocky, cube shape, with a side-passage plan, or
                                                      cross-gable

                                                  •   bay windows, often rectangular in shape

                                                  •   quoins

                                                  •   cresting

                                                  •   transom, often curved, above the front door

                                                  •   ornate porch treatment, with round columns or
                                                      square posts, and bargeboard ornament




4:8          PART I                                                                        Salt Lake City
Picturesque                                              4 Historic Context and Architectural Styles


Second Empire
c. 1870-1890

The Second Empire refers to the French reign of
Louis Napoleon, the grand-nephew of Napoleon
Bonaparte, who ruled from 1852 to 1870. In
both France and America, the Second Empire
style coincided with a period of prosperity and
materialism, and was associated with urbanity and
cosmopolitan society. In many cities in the United
States it was used for government structures, but
                                                                     Second Empire
it was popular for residences as well. Classical
details, such as quoins, round columns and heavy
friezes were often used; however, there was usually
                                                                     Characteristics
so much going on that Second Empire buildings,
at least high-style examples, took on a life of their                •    steeply pitched, mansard roof
own. Extant Second Empire houses in Salt Lake                        •    roof can be either straight or concave, and is
were constructed of brick and wood, and thus do                           interrupted by dormers
not have the rich, sculptural wall texture found
                                                                     •    complex massing forms
in examples in other parts of the country. Instead,
builders and architects achieved the exuberance of                   •    brick, stucco or wood clapboard

this style by using asymmetrical and complicated                     •    wrought-iron ornament, such as cresting on
massing, and by applying plenty of ornament:                              roof or heavy, ornate iron fencing
cresting, railings, and moldings.                                    •    wide eaves, often with modillions

                                                                     •    corbelled chimney

                                                                     •    dormers with heavy moldings

                                                                     •    double-hung windows, either one-over-one or
                                                                          two-over-two lights

                                                                     •    hood moldings over the windows

                                                                     •    sandstone foundation and porch steps




A Preservation Handbook for Historic Residential Properties & Districts                                     PART I     4:9
PART I         Preservation in Salt Lake City


Victorian Era                                              Complex Massing
                                                           The massing of Victorian era homes is often a
c. 1870-1910
                                                           profusion of towers, turrets, dormers, gables, bay
Technically the word “Victorian” refers to the
                                                           windows and porches. Even small homes look
long reign of Queen Victoria, which lasted from
                                                           complicated through the use of a cross-wing floor
1833 to 1901 and encompassed the rich variety
                                                           plan and roofs with a variety of planes and slopes.
of architectural styles that were popular during
the nineteenth century. Architecturally the word
                                                           Surface Ornamentation and Materials
“Victorian” evokes the complexity and irregularity
                                                           Because fired brick was the most commonly used
seen in the massing and materials of modest homes
                                                           building material from 1865 on, Victorian era
to large mansions. The use of Victorian era styles in
                                                           homes in Salt Lake do not display the abundance
Salt Lake City became available with the advent of
                                                           of wall decoration as those in cities where wood
rail transportation; access to national markets and
                                                           construction predominated. Still, Salt Lake Victorian
culture was reflected in its architecture.
                                                           era structures display a variety of materials.
Three specific styles popular during this period
                                                           •   Shingles are the most commonly used
are discussed below; other examples, such as the
                                                               embellishment on Victorian era homes in Salt
Richardsonian Romanesque, Eastlake and Stick
                                                               Lake, especially in gable ends and dormer
style can be found in Salt Lake’s historic districts but
                                                               walls.
not in great quantity. (For more information about
these styles, refer to Utah’s Historic Architecture or     •   Horizontal wood siding, although also used
A Field Guide to American Houses.) The majority of             during other periods, can be seen on Victorian
Salt Lake’s “Victorian” houses do not represent pure           era homes. The siding has a crispness that gives
examples of anything; simply describing a house                the building a repetition of light and shadow
built in Salt Lake after 1880 as “Victorian” can be            that is texturally rich.
misleading because residents and builders tended to
take elements from one style and mix with another.
Still, among most Salt Lake residents the term
conjures up the image of a house built about 1890,
either one or two story, with an asymmetrical form,
a steeply-pitched roof and “lots of gingerbread.”
No matter if the house is Queen Anne, Shingle,
“eclectic” or “transitional,” if it can truly be termed
“Victorian” it will have several of the following
characteristics:




4 : 10   PART I                                                                                    Salt Lake City
Victorian Era                                            4 Historic Context and Architectural Styles


•   Fancy scroll cut wood work, especially around
    gables and porches.

•   Ornamental brick work, such as corbelling and
    rows of soldier bricks as lintels.

•   Use of wrought or cast iron as cresting along
    ridge lines or as railings and fencing. The metal
    was heavy, in a complicated pattern, and was
    generally found in more prestigious structures
    and sites. In contrast the “licorice stick” porch
    supports and railing that became popular                         Victorian Eclectic
    in the 1950s had a negative effect on historic
    character.

•   Use of stone for foundations (sandstone, in
    a variety of colors and qualities, is the most
    common).

•   Combinations of materials. For example,
    horizontal siding can be seen on the first story
    and shingles are used on the second. A very
    common combination is the use of sandstone
    for the foundation, the use of fired brick on the
                                                                     Classical details combined with Victorian Eclectic massing.
    walls, and wooden shingles in the gable ends


Windows
•   The standard window in a Victorian era house
    is the double-hung sash, made of wood.

•   A large, plate-glass window with a fixed
    transom, often with leaded or stained glass,
    is commonly used in the front of the house.
    These are sometimes flanked by narrower
    windows that are usually in a one-over-one
    configuration.

•   Palladian and oval windows are frequently
    used in the gable ends.

•   Windows are often grouped in thirds
    (tripartite) in varying combinations.




A Preservation Handbook for Historic Residential Properties & Districts                                        PART I         4 : 11
PART I           Preservation in Salt Lake City                                      Victorian Era


                                                  Victorian Eclectic
                                                  c. 1885-1910

                                                  As Thomas Carter and Peter Goss point out in
                                                  Utah’s Historic Architecture, 1847-1940, “Victorian
                                                  Eclectic is less a distinct style than an amalgamation
                                                  of elements from many popular nineteenth century
                                                  styles.” It often has a massing defined by the Utah
                                                  State Historic Preservation Office as a “central
                                                  block with projecting wings”--a central cube with
                                                  a hipped roof from which a shallow gabled wing
                                                  projects. Thousands of examples of the one-story
                                                  form can be seen throughout Utah, but many two-
Plate glass window with leaded glass              story examples can be found as well.
transom.
                                                  Characteristics

                                                  •   hipped roof over the main block; projecting
                                                      wing with front-facing gable

                                                  •   porch with shed roof on one-story; often a
                                                      gable on two-story examples

                                                  •   usually round columns

                                                  •   tripartite, often Palladian window in upper
                                                      story of gable
Palladian window
                                                  •   tripartite division of windows on projecting
                                                      wing




Victorian Eclectic




4 : 12    PART I                                                                          Salt Lake City
Victorian Era                                            4 Historic Context and Architectural Styles


Queen Anne
c. 1885-1905

Proponents of the Queen Anne style found their
inspiration from the medieval art and architecture
that proceeded its namesake’s reign (1702-1714),
growing out of recognition of vernacular, modest,
pre-industrial structures, and a desire to bring about
a close relationship of architecture and ornament.

In the United States, it developed from a desire
                                                                                 Queen Anne with turret.
to identify a national style. Both the Centennial
Exposition, held in Philadelphia in 1876, and the
popularity of New England coastal towns, exposed
Americans to their colonial, vernacular architectural
past. The wood clapboard and shingle houses that                     Characteristics
were constructed in eastern Massachusetts during                     •    irregular, asymmetrical massing
the seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries
                                                                     •    use of bay windows, towers, turrets, dormers,
brought about the usual longing of security and
                                                                          gables — anything that protrudes from the wall
simplicity that earlier ages always evoke, and were
                                                                          and the roof
all the more appealing because they were seen as
pure “American.” The new Queen Anne style used                       •    use of varying wall textures
the broad gables, long sloping roofs and small pane                  •    use of ornament: wooden scroll work on
windows of these early houses for the exterior,                           porches and gables, complicated brick patterns,
while giant hearths inglenooks and spacious,                              ornate metal railings
inviting halls influenced interior design. The style
                                                                     •    windows with leaded or stained glass
introduced a new kind of open planning and a new
                                                                     •    windows with large panes of glass surrounded
way of massing volumes of space; it was inherently
                                                                          by small panes
eclectic and became available to homeowners of all
income levels.                                                       •    tall brick chimneys




A Preservation Handbook for Historic Residential Properties & Districts                                    PART I   4 : 13
PART I          Preservation in Salt Lake City                                     Victorian Era


                                                 Shingle
                                                 c. 1885-1900

                                                 The Shingle style is closely related to the Queen
                                                 Anne and the Colonial Revival styles in the use of
                                                 asymmetrical massing, broad front porches and
                                                 window treatments. Its defining characteristic is the
                                                 extensive use of shingles. The Shingle style can be
                                                 seen on high-style, architect-designed homes; it was
                                                 not used for more modest homes.
Shingle Style
                                                 Characteristics

                                                 •   structure is almost entirely clad with shingles

                                                 •   secondary materials include sandstone
                                                     foundations and wood for windows and trim

                                                 •   large, dominant front gable

                                                 •   asymmetrical massing, including the use of
                                                     towers, dormers and eyebrow windows

                                                 •   the porch is a prominent feature that is tucked
                                                     under the main roof line

                                                 •   use of classical features, such as round columns
                                                     on porches, one-over-one double-hung sash
                                                     windows, and Palladian windows




4 : 14    PART I                                                                         Salt Lake City
                                                         4 Historic Context and Architectural Styles


Period Revival
c. 1890-1940

Period Revival styles encompass the reworked
versions of the Spanish Colonial, the English
Tudor, French Norman, and classically-inspired
architecture, along with many other variants used
throughout the country’s colonial history. With the
exception of the Neoclassical, which was generally
reserved for mansions, period revival styles lent
themselves well to designs for modest homes, and
offered an alternative to the bungalow. Developers
and builders found that evoking a cozy image of the
past sold well, and that revival styles satisfied the
need of home buyers to conform to tradition, while
making use of contemporary convenience and floor
plans, such as the L-shaped living room. Several
neighborhoods in Salt Lake were constructed with
rows of period revival “cottages” - such as the area
near the 1500 South and 1500 East intersection -
in the same way that scores of bungalows were
used in subdivisions surrounding Liberty Park.
However, many Period Revival styles, especially
the Spanish Colonial and the English Tudor, are less
common in specific local historic districts because
the development of these areas occurred prior to the
popularity of these styles. Period Revival homes are
more common in districts which developed after the
turn of the century, such as the University district.




A Preservation Handbook for Historic Residential Properties & Districts                 PART I   4 : 15
PART I          Preservation in Salt Lake City                                       Period Revival


                                                 Spanish Colonial Revival
                                                 c. 1915-1935

                                                 This style was popularized by the Panama-
                                                 California Exposition, held in San Diego in 1915.
                                                 The exposition was widely publicized, and the use
                                                 of architectural examples from the Spanish Colonies
                                                 encouraged Americans to realize that their country
                                                 had a rich Spanish heritage, as well as an Anglo-
                                                 Saxon past. Several modest and high-style examples
Spanish Colonial Revival                         of this style exist in the historic districts.

                                                 Characteristics

                                                 •   use of stucco, often with a textured pattern

                                                 •   use of tile roofs, usually red

                                                 •   use of wrought-iron for balcony and porch
                                                     railings

                                                 •   decorative wall surfaces, using tile or low-relief
                                                     terra-cotta sculpture

                                                 •   round-arched openings




4 : 16    PART I                                                                             Salt Lake City
Period Revival                                           4 Historic Context and Architectural Styles


Tudor Revival
(c. 1915-1935)

As with many styles, the Tudor Revival does not
adhere to the source of its inspiration, that of
sixteenth-century English architecture, but instead
is a mixture of elements from an American image of
medieval forms that resulted in something “quaint.”
The development of the Tudor Revival style was
associated with the Arts and Crafts movement, in
which medieval architecture and crafts were valued
as a rejection of the industrialized age. Ironically,
the popularity of the style was due in large part to
its exposure through mail-order catalogues such as
Sears Roebuck and the Aladdin Company, in which
parts of the house were pre-assembled and shipped                    Tudor Revival

by rail anywhere in the United States. The style was
used extensively during the 1920s and 1930s; it was
used both in large, formal examples (particularly
in the University Historic District) and for smaller,
modest homes.

Characteristics

•   steeply pitched roof

•   cross-gabled roof lines

•   decorative half-timbering

•   decorative masonry

•   arched doorways

•   casement windows, often with leaded,
    diamond panes

•   projecting entryway that follows slope of front
    gable

•   rolled edges on roofing (an attempt to imitate
    thatch)

•   use of stucco or brick




A Preservation Handbook for Historic Residential Properties & Districts                 PART I   4 : 17
PART I             Preservation in Salt Lake City                                    Period Revival


                                                    Colonial Revival
                                                    c. 1890-1940

                                                    “Colonial Revival” encompasses many variants of
                                                    residential architecture used from about the turn of
                                                    the century through the 1930s, and was especially
                                                    popular during the teens. It can apply to a Georgian
                                                    Revival mansion, a Neoclassical home, a Dutch
                                                    Colonial house or a structure in which elements of
                                                    several of these styles were used. Massing forms
Colonial Revival                                    vary but they often have classical details, such as
                                                    dentil moldings, pediments over the doorways,
                                                    round columns and lunette windows.


                                                    Dutch Colonial Revival
                                                    c. 1890-1915

                                                    The “Dutch Colonial Revival,” style has a gambrel
                                                    roof form. This style is closely allied with the
                                                    Shingle and the Queen Anne styles. The details,
                                                    such as the window pattern, porches and materials
                                                    are very similar.

                                                    •   gambrel roof - both side-and front-facing
                                                        variations can be found.

                                                    •   shingle gable end

                                                    •   two story

                                                    •   prominent front porch, with classically-detailed
Dutch Colonial Revival                                  porch supports and plain balustrades

                                                    •   double-hung sash windows, with either single
                                                        panes or multiple panes in the upper light.

                                                    •   lunette windows in the upper gable.

                                                    •   large, single pane windows with a fixed
                                                        transom on the first story




4 : 18    PART I                                                                           Salt Lake City
Period Revival                                           4 Historic Context and Architectural Styles


Georgian Revival
c. 1895-1930

•   usually large, elaborate

•   brick (often red) or wood clapboard

•   ornate moldings, such as dentils and modillions

•   round columns with complex capitals

•   hipped roofs with shallow pitches

•   dormers                                                          Georgian Revival
•   double-hung windows, either one-over-one,
    six-over-one or six-over-six

•   low porch railings with turned balusters

•   prominent center window on second story,
    often arched or curved

•   quoins

•   shutters


Neoclassical Revival
c. 1895-1925

•   full-height porch with a pediment, round
    columns with complex capitals. In some                           Neoclassical
    instances the porches are curved porticoes

•   hipped roofs

•   eaves with dentils, modillions, prominent frieze

•   shutters

•   panelled doors surrounded by pilasters and a
    pediment

•   double-hung windows; usually one-over-one,
    but sometimes six-over-six or six-over-one

•   low porch rails with turned balusters




A Preservation Handbook for Historic Residential Properties & Districts                 PART I   4 : 19
PART I           Preservation in Salt Lake City


                                                  The “Foursquare,” also known as
                                                  “the Box”
                                                  c. 1895-1915

                                                  The Foursquare, also known as “the box,” is
                                                  really more of a type or a form than a style, and
                                                  architectural historians differ as to its origins. Some
                                                  say that it is a descendent of the classical styles
                                                  that were popular in the United States during
                                                  the late 17th and 18th centuries because of their
                                                  blocky shape and hipped roofs. These early houses,
                                                  however, were wide and two rooms deep and not
                                                  suitable for urban lots one hundred years later. The
                                                  Foursquare was thus devised to adapt to narrow
                                                  parcels of land. Other historians claim that it is
                                                  merely a transition between the Victorian era and
The Foursquare                                    the bungalow — lacking the fussiness of the former
                                                  but not achieving the cozy, earth-hugging quality of
                                                  the latter. Mail order catalogs disseminated the style
                                                  from 1900 to the 1930s. throughout the country. Salt
                                                  Lake City has numerous examples, and this style
                                                  is especially prevalent in the Avenues, and in the
                                                  blocks east of 1000 East on South Temple.




4 : 20   PART I                                                                            Salt Lake City
Foursquare                                               4 Historic Context and Architectural Styles


Characteristics

•   looks like a box

•   low-pitched hipped roof

•   one-over-one, double-hung windows, or

•   one-light, fixed window; with fixed transom

•   prominent lintels and sills

•   full, open porch

•   wide eaves

•   brackets in some instances                                       Because of its simplicity, the Foursquare lends itself to many
•   dormers: shed roof, hipped (with a low pitch),                   styles. With thick square posts and exposed rafters it take on a
                                                                     Craftsman tone. With rounded porch columns and a pediment
    gabled (sometimes with a pediment)                               on the porch roof it becomes classical.
•   outside siding: wood clapboard, stucco, brick.
    Dormer walls shingled in Craftsman examples.

•   rare examples have quoins

•   concrete or brick foundation

•   rear, frame, shed roof addition (or secondary
    space) at rear

•   if Classical or Colonial Revival: vertical rail
    balustrade on porch, round porch columns
    with Doric capitals that are sometimes doubled
    and a broad fascia that is an entablature

•   if Craftsman, porch has square posts, tapered
    arched openings, brick pony walls




A Preservation Handbook for Historic Residential Properties & Districts                                         PART I         4 : 21
PART I       Preservation in Salt Lake City


                                              The Bungalow
                                              c. 1905-1925

                                              Like the term “Foursquare,” the word “bungalow”
                                              denotes a type rather than a style. The word
                                              probably comes from a type of East Indian dwelling
                                              with broad verandas. Its immense popularity in
                                              the United States springs from a rejection of the
                                              constraints of the Victorian era, from the Arts and
                                              Crafts movement, and from the fact that it lent itself
                                              well to both modest and impressive house designs.

                                              Although bungalows display a variety of materials
                                              and details, they are easily recognized by their
                                              wide, low-pitched roofs and broad front porches
                                              that create a deep, recessed space. Many bungalows
                                              fall readily into the Arts and Crafts categories,
                                              with exposed brackets and rafters, the use of “art”
                                              glass in windows and the combination of different
                                              textures, such as cobblestone and shingles. Others
                                              represent      scaled-down   Prairie-style   versions,
                                              with low-pitched roofs, broad eaves and simple
                                              geometric shapes that provide an overall horizontal
                                              appearance.

                                              Thousands of the second type were built in
                                              new subdivisions in Salt Lake City about 1910.
                                              These are especially prevalent east, west and
                                              south of Liberty Park. Examples of Prairie-style
                                              bungalows occur in the city’s historic districts,
                                              but by the time the bungalow appeared there was
                                              not enough undeveloped land in the established
                                              neighborhoods to build rows and rows of them.
                                              Even when scattered among older structures, they
                                              represent an important era in the city’s architectural
                                              development, continuing to evoke their original
                                              intent: comfortable, informal living.




4 : 22   PART I                                                                       Salt Lake City
The Bungalow                                             4 Historic Context and Architectural Styles


Characteristics

•   a rectangular plan with one or two stories

•   different roof types: a more steeply pitched roof
    with the ridge line parallel to the street that
    covers a porch extending the full width of the
    house and hip-roofs with a shallow pitch

•   exposed rafters, brackets — anything to evoke
    the structural composition of the building

•   brick, wood shingle or clapboard siding

•   broad eaves

•   thick, tapered porch posts

•   rectangular bay windows

•   casement windows

•   large, plate glass windows

•   wing walls on the porch

•   dormers that follow the line of the roof

•   use of cobblestone

•   concrete cap around porch wall

•   both sandstone and concrete foundations were
    historically used on bungalows. Concrete
    foundations generally extend one to two inches
    beyond the exterior wall.




A Preservation Handbook for Historic Residential Properties & Districts                 PART I   4 : 23
PART I          Preservation in Salt Lake City                                    The Bungalow


                                                 Wall Materials
                                                 •   Many materials were historically used on
                                                     bungalows.

                                                 •   Arts and Crafts bungalows often had wooden
                                                     shingles or shakes, cobblestone and brick.

                                                 •   Prairie-style bungalows were usually brick, and
                                                     sometimes had a brick wainscoting with stucco
                                                     above.

Bungalow with projecting porch.                  •   Although a variety of materials were often used
                                                     on the same house, too many materials can ruin
                                                     the simplicity that is an inherent characteristic
                                                     of the bungalow. Shingles, for example, would
                                                     be inappropriate on Prairie-style bungalow.


                                                 Windows
                                                 Many different window types are appropriate for
                                                 bungalows. Solutions will depend on what style the
                                                 bungalow is and where the window is located on
                                                 the house.
Bungalow with inset porch.
                                                 Arts and Crafts

                                                 These windows are generally more complex than
                                                 those of the Prairie style.

                                                 •   Tripartite (divided into thirds) arrangements:
                                                     two long windows flanking a wider central
                                                     window which has a transom; windows
                                                     of an even size, either aligned vertically or
                                                     horizontally.

                                                 •   Small paned windows. These are frequently
                                                     seen in attic windows, in transoms and in the
                                                     upper sashes of single hung windows.

                                                 •   Casement. Probably not as prevalent in Arts
                                                     and Crafts, but still appropriate.




4 : 24    PART I                                                                          Salt Lake City
The Bungalow                                             4 Historic Context and Architectural Styles


Prairie

•   Large, plate glass windows are appropriate for
    this style.

•   Casement windows are a hallmark of this style,
    and are appropriate. Single or double-hung
    windows can also be used.

•   Long, wide concrete lintels and sills are
    frequently seen on this style; these features
    should be retained.
                                                                     Prairie-style bungalow
Doors
The doors of bungalows often imitate the geometric
qualities found with this house type.

•   Historically the doors are wooden with panels
    and windows in the upper third.

•   Sidelights were occasionally used, but are not
    a common feature. If they exist, they should be
    retained.

•   Doors with Victorian era elements, such as
    ovals or frosted glass, are not in keeping with
    the bungalow style.

•   Heavy, elaborate storm doors should not be
    used.

                                                                                      Porch columns with Arts and Crafts details,
                                                                                      rafter tails.




                                                                     Bungalow with Arts and Crafts details.




A Preservation Handbook for Historic Residential Properties & Districts                                       PART I       4 : 25
PART I          Preservation in Salt Lake City                                          The Bungalow


                                                        Porches
                                                        •   Along with the wide eaves and the broad roof
                                                            form, the wide, prominent porch is the most
                                                            important feature of the bungalow, and should
                                                            be maintained.

                                                        •   Posts vary, and include tapered, square or
                                                            round columns. Materials can be brick; brick to
                                                            the rail level with wood above; stucco; wood;
                                                            and for Arts and Crafts bungalows, cobblestone
                                                            and shingles. Again, too many materials can
Arts and Crafts style bungalow with rock porch piers.
                                                            overwhelm the design.

                                                        •   Railings also took on different forms. Balusters
                                                            could be wooden 2 by 2’s, spaced about 2
                                                            inches apart. They could be flat with a “cut-
                                                            out” shape. The wall around the porch could
                                                            also be brick, particularly appropriate for
                                                            Prairie-style bungalows; or if the house was
                                                            shingled, the porch wall might also be shingled.
                                                            In a few instances, a heavy, curved wrought-
                                                            iron was used.




4 : 26    PART I                                                                                Salt Lake City
                                                         4 Historic Context and Architectural Styles


Modern
The modern styles discussed below originate from
a variety of sources, but overall the impetus for
the “modern” styles was a rejection of all historical
references. Proponents of modernity did not
differ from reformers of other eras in their desire
to use design to address social issues, but they
distinguished themselves by shunning the past as
well as cultural or national contexts. Additionally,
modern architects stressed the emphasis on volume                    International Style
and the inherent value and elegance of materials.
Architects had new structural options, primarily the
steel frame and reinforced concrete. They could use
                                                                     International
flat roofs, greater window space and cantilevered
elements. They embraced new technology and “the                      c. 1930-1940

machine age,” and their imprint has had a profound                   The use of the words “international style” refers to
effect on American architecture and urbanism.                        the title of the exhibit promoted by the Museum of
                                                                     Modern Art in New York City in 1931 presenting
                                                                     the work of forty architects from fifteen countries.
                                                                     It has become synonymous with modern styles and
                                                                     post-World War II architecture.

                                                                     Characteristics

                                                                     •    flat roofs

                                                                     •    an emphasis on volume, rather than mass, most
                                                                          often expressed through an extensive use of
                                                                          glass and angular, horizontal shapes

                                                                     •    asymmetrical facades

                                                                     •    corner windows

                                                                     •    metal casement windows, often multi-paned

                                                                     •    metal pipes used for balusters

                                                                     •    no surface ornamentation

                                                                     •    an attempt to create smooth wall surfaces,
                                                                          although brick, as the predominant Utah
                                                                          material, was often used




A Preservation Handbook for Historic Residential Properties & Districts                                    PART I      4 : 27
PART I        Preservation in Salt Lake City                                              Modern


                                               Art Moderne
                                               c. 1930-1940

                                               Often closely related to the International Style in
                                               appearance, the Art Moderne was devised as a
                                               way of incorporating the machine aesthetic into
                                               architecture, in the sense that buildings could
                                               emulate motion and efficiency. It is also referred to
                                               as the Streamlined Moderne, and always carried the
                                               aura of the futuristic. Whatever the term, in this case
                                               architecture followed industrial design, as “the slick
Art Moderne
                                               look” was used for everything from irons to baby
                                               carriages.

                                               Characteristics

                                               •   an asymmetrical facade, with a combination of
                                                   rounded corners and angular shapes

                                               •   use of glass block

                                               •   use of metal sash windows with small panes,
                                                   often placed at corners

                                               •   horizontal bands at the cornice, referred to as
                                                   “speed bands”

                                               •   references to ocean lines, as in the use of
                                                   “porthole” windows and metal railings




4 : 28   PART I                                                                         Salt Lake City
                                                         4 Historic Context and Architectural Styles


Post-War

Post-War Cottage
c. 1930-1950

The Post-War Cottage (sometimes referred to as
a “Cape Cod cottage” or a “World War II-Era
cottage) is often considered as a sub-category of the
Colonial Revival. They mark a transition between
the Colonial Revival examples constructed before
                                                                     Cape-Cod Cottage
the war and the ubiquitous ranch type homes
built afterwards. Because of their relatively recent
construction many people have a difficult time
thinking of them as “historic,” but in most instances
they have met the fifty-year mark establishing
significance, and their distinctive characteristics
(listed below) make these buildings worthy of a
sensitive and appropriate preservation approach.

•   brick, shingles or wood clapboard

•   panelled door, surrounded by pilasters and an
    entablature                                                      Detail on a Post-War Cottage
•   small entrance porch with round columns with
    a simple capital

•   double-hung windows, often with six-over-six
    lights

•   alternatively multi-pane metal sash windows

•   shutters dormers on front roof slope




A Preservation Handbook for Historic Residential Properties & Districts                             PART I   4 : 29
PART I         Preservation in Salt Lake City                                             Post War


                                                Ranch
                                                c. 1946-1970

                                                The ranch style, with its roomy interior and “easy
                                                living” connotation, appealed to the post-World
                                                War II generation. Because of the Depression and
                                                the war, Americans had been deprived of consumer
                                                goods for fifteen years. During this period the
                                                home-building industry was at a standstill, but
Ranch Style House                               after 1945, the pent-up demand, coupled with
                                                the provisions of the G.I. Bill, led to an explosion
                                                of single-family home construction. Sometimes
                                                referred to as a “rambler,” ranch style homes were
                                                built in great quantities. Not many can be seen in
                                                the city’s historic districts because the style achieved
                                                popularity after their development; instead, they
                                                were built as infill housing.

                                                Characteristics

                                                •   flat or slightly pitched roof

                                                •   prominent, built-in garages

                                                •   one story

                                                •   decorative iron or wooden porch supports

                                                •   asymmetrical massing and forms

                                                •   metal or wood window frames

                                                •   use of flagstone for decorative purposes, such
                                                    as planter boxes




4 : 30   PART I                                                                           Salt Lake City
                                                         4 Historic Context and Architectural Styles


Multi-Family Structures
The construction of apartment buildings at the turn
of the century represented one indication of the
urbanization of Salt Lake City. An article in the Salt
Lake Tribune in 1902 stated:

  “It is generally recognized by farseeing investors
  that the period of cottages in Salt Lake has reached
  its highest point and the period of flat buildings,
  marking another stage in the evolution from town
  to city, has just begun.” (July 27, 1902, p. 32).

During the period from 1902 to 1931, at least 180
apartment buildings were constructed in the central
city (including the Avenues) sections of Salt Lake.
They did not house the inner city poor; rather,
occupants included members of the middle-class
who were either at a transient period of their lives,
or as a choice of longer-term residence: unmarried
young adults, widows, childless couples, retired
                                                                     The Kensington Apartments were constructed about 1905, and
workers and people starting new careers.
                                                                     represent a type of apartment known as a “walk-up.”
All of the apartment buildings had fired brick
exteriors and were usually at least three stories tall.
Prior to World War I, “walk-up” apartments were
the norm. They contained six to eight units (three or
four stories) with two units off of a central hallway.
They almost always have projecting porches on the
front and frame utility porches with back stairways
at the rear.

After World War I the “double-loaded corridor”
type replaced the walk-up. These have a narrow end
facing the street and are long, rectangular blocks.
They are usually between three and five stories tall.
There are several units on each floor that flank a
long corridor. These apartment buildings were well-
suited to the large, deep blocks in Salt Lake




A Preservation Handbook for Historic Residential Properties & Districts                                     PART I       4 : 31
PART I          Preservation in Salt Lake City                                     Multi Family


                                                 Other variants exist, but are not as numerous.
                                                 These include the “U,” the “H,” and the hotel block
                                                 (similar to the “U” but with a commercial use on the
                                                 first story).”

                                                 Walk-up

                                                 •   brick exterior walls

                                                 •   flat roof

                                                 •   front porch bay that extends the full height of
                                                     the building

                                                 •   frame, often enclosed, porch at the rear

                                                 •   high, raised basements, often stone but also
                                                     concrete

                                                 •   defined front and back facades
A double-loaded corridor apartment building.
                                                 Double-Loaded Corridor

                                                 •   brick exterior walls

                                                 •   flat roof

                                                 •   if balconies exist, they are purely ornamental,
                                                     very shallow, often with wrought iron railings

                                                 •   bay windows or French doors on the street
                                                     facade

                                                 •   the “front” of the apartment, from the
                                                     perspective of the tenant, is the corridor, and
                                                     the exterior side walls form the “back.”

                                                 Both types exhibit a variety of styles, most
                                                 commonly Classical or Colonial Revival. Walk-ups
                                                 are generally classical.




4 : 32    PART I                                                                         Salt Lake City
Multi Family                                             4 Historic Context and Architectural Styles


Classical Revival

•   Appearance of a parapet because of an applied,
    projecting cornice, usually about one foot from
    the top of the wall.

•   Round columns on porches

•   Large capitals, especially Corinthian, at the top
    of the porches of walk-ups.

•   Quoins

•   Pastiche keystones and imposts over doorway
    arches

•   The use of mutules, dentil courses

•   Pediments over the porches.
                                                                                     Classical Revival

Tudor Revival

•   Steeply pitched roofs over the entrances

•   Multi-pane windows, sometimes diagonal
    panes

•   Crenulation as a cornice detail

•   Half-timbering

•   Crenulation around the entrance way

Prairie

•   Casement windows

•   Wide, overhanging eaves
                                                                                     Tudor Revival
•   Heavy lintels to emphasize horizontal
    orientation




                                                                     Prairie Style




A Preservation Handbook for Historic Residential Properties & Districts                                  PART I   4 : 33
PART I          Preservation in Salt Lake City


                                                                Commercial Structures
                                                                c. 1900

                                                                Compared to the number of residential structures,
                                                                there are few historic commercial buildings in the
                                                                Avenues, South Temple, Central City, Capitol Hill
                                                                and University districts. In contrast, Exchange Place
                                                                district is entirely commercial. Historic commercial
                                                                buildings in the Avenues, Central City, Capitol Hill,
                                                                and the University districts were typically small
                                                                stores which provided services to nearby residents.
                                                                In the University district several historic homes and
                                                                institutions have been converted to commercial use.

                                                                Commercial and institutional buildings on South
                                                                Temple may be historic if close to Downtown. East
                                                                of Downtown these non-residential structures were
                                                                frequently built following the demolition of historic
                                                                homes. They are now becoming old enough to be
                                                                considered historic in their own right, although they
                                                                were not the basis for establishing the district. The
                                                                most recent historic district, Westmoreland Place,
                                                                does not have any commercial buildings.

                                                                See also the Design Guidelines for Commercial
                                                                Historic Properties in Salt Lake City.

                                                                Characteristics

                                                                •   One- or two-story

                                                                •   Flat roof

                                                                •   The street elevation of the first story is almost
                                                                    all plate glass above a knee wall. There is often
 Additional Information                                             a transom above the plate glass.
 Carter, Thomas and Peter Goss. Utah’s Historic Architecture,   •   There is often a parapet wall on the street
 1847-1940. Salt Lake City, Utah: University of Utah and Utah
                                                                    elevation, with decorative corbelling.
 State Historical Society, 1988.
 http://heritage.utah.gov/history/historic-architecture-        •   Signage was either painted on the building
 guide
                                                                    above the transom; most often the business was
 http://utahhistory.sdlhost.com/#/
 item/000000011019963/view/195                                      identified by the use of an awning. The awning
                                                                    was angled (not rounded) with a valance of
 McAlester, Virginia and Lee McAlester. A Field Guide to
 American Houses. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1984.                  about 4”.


4 : 34    PART I                                                                                         Salt Lake City
Carrie Marsh

From:             Cheryl Phippen
Sent:             Monday, February 2, 2026 4:58 PM
To:               Carrie Marsh
Subject:          Conditional use permit historic site

Follow Up Flag:   Follow up
Flag Status:      Flagged



[External Email - Use Caution]

Planning commission:

I live directly across the street from the driveway on Cottonwood Lane. I deƱningly appose the use of this
house as a place of business because there is no parking for customers or employees of a business at
this location. Also, there is no information as to what the business will do, how many customer and
employees will be at the location during the day and what type of business it is.

Residence yes, place of business NO.

Sincerely,
Reginald C Phippen




                                                         1
Regarding the Bowthorpe House at 4910 S Holladay Blvd:

My comments here are as a citizen and not as a part of a commission.

The Bowthorpe House was included on a list of historic homes when Holladay
incorporated. It was also included on the State of Utah Century Register as of 1981. Up
until last year it was a lovely historic Pioneer home. It is no longer an historic building,
and it doesn’t belong on Holladay’s historic site register.

I know from personal experience the work, expense, and advice it takes to maintain an
historic home. Most buyers of historic properties do understand this. First, let me note
the care the owner went to in replicating all of the gingerbread trim, the eaves,
shingles, and fishscales. I only wish that same care had extended to the decision to
envelop the entire house in siding.

The property owner of the Bowthorpe House has her own reasons for completely
enclosing this historic house. It’s not clear from the documents whether she contacted
the State History office for guidance or resources to address the brick problem. Once
again, I know from personal experience that brick deterioration can be a difficult and
expensive project. But these expenses are for the homeowner to bear, and should not
be a reason for the City to overlook its ordinances. I’d like to hear whether
consideration was given to repairing the brick -- at least on the front façade -- so that it
would remain brick and not be clad in siding.

The decision to remove one of the façade’s defining features -- the prominent window
and brick eyebrow -- and replace it with two narrow windows with a horizontal, wooden
trim seems to have been a design choice chosen from examples in San Francisco,
California. It’s cute, but it doesn’t reflect vernacular Pioneer design. Once again,
changes to the front façade should be done with care, kept at a minimum, and with
advice from State History. One of the shorthand questions to ask when changes to the
façade are considered: would the original builder/designer/owner of this building
recognize it if they came up the front walk? In the case of the changes made to the
façade – with the missing prominent front window, and the addition of an elaborate
front porch based on Victorian homes in San Francisco -- I’m not sure William
Bowthorpe would.

As I understand it, being listed on Holladay’s historic site register extends benefits to
the homeowner of an historic property, in that they can run a business in a
neighborhood which is not zoned commercial. The benefit that the citizens get in
return, is that an historic building in their midst has been preserved. In this case, sadly,
an historic property has not been preserved. It has been covered over, refashioned in
style, and the defining features of the façade removed.

This is not a good precedent for Holladay’s nascent historic site register. Going
forward, owners of historic properties might understand that they can heavily renovate
their buildings, with or without permissions, with or without honoring facades, and still
enjoy benefits of running businesses in our neighborhoods.
  :LOOLDP%RZWKRUSH+RPH
5HVWRUDWLRQ6WRU\DW+ROODGD\%RXOHYDUG

        5HVWRUDWLRQE\+LOODU\7D\ORU
Regarding Historical Site Ordinance 13.86.060 Conditional Use Permit Application
4910 S. Holladay Boulevard, Holladay, UT 84117


I have restored this beautiful historic site over the past few years, and wish to retain its historical site designation.
At great cost, and with an understanding of the beneΞts of maintaining the historic detailing of the home, I have
undergone a lengthy restoration and hope to beneΞt from my eΛorts according to the ordinance.


The beneΞts of maintaining a historical site designation are detailed in Ordinance 13.86.060. One of the uses, in
addition to residential zoning (which in this area includes multi -family living and allowance for nightly rentals),
is to use this space as an oΜce. I would therefore like to apply for a conditional use permit under the ordinance.


SpeciΞcally, I would like to use this space as a small, appointment-only oﬃce. Employee parking would only be
on-site, upon the premises. There are (6) on site parking spots located behind the home. Two parking spaces are
in the attached garage, 2 in the west driveway and 1 in the north driveway areas. On-site parking is located down
a private right of way on Parcel 2 of the property, 22.10.255.022. Parcel 1 is 22.10.255.25


Hours of operation would be limited Monday-Friday during business hours. If any visitors make
appointments, they will use the Holladay Blvd entrance, the front door. Mail and small package deliveries will
continue at the Holladay Blvd entrance, the front door. We will not accept freight deliveries at this address.


This home has had multiple tenants for the past many years- some of which did incredible damage to the home.
We purchased the home and kept the mother-in-law tenant in place during the restoration. This apartment
would continue in use as it has for many years.


I will not install signage, at any point near or on the home. I wish to keep it looking residential and feeling
residential. I am a residential interior designer and wish to use this space as my oΜce. I have a very small oΜce
and work on limited projects. My Ξrm has a few employees and we provide service to high-end clients whose
residential projects are located throughout the United States.


Thank you,
Hillary Taylor,
owner/ oΜcer of Victorian Summer Hill LLC, owner of 4910 S. Holladay Blvd, Holladay, UT 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1(::25.*(1(5$/127(6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ),(/'9(5,)<$//
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ',0(16,216,)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ',0(16,2169$5<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6,*1,),&$17/<127,)<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            02',)<'(6,*1%8,/'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          $//',0(16,21672)$&(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2)678'25(;,67,1*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ),1,6+81/(66127('
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            27+(5:,6(




                                                                                                                                                                                                  $
                                                                                                                                                                                                  




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7+('(6,*1&217$,1(':,7+,17+(6('5$:,1*6,67+(3523(57<2)02',)<'(6,*1%8,/'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 //&$1'6+$//127%(5(352'8&('&23,('2586(',1$1<27+(5:$<,1:+2/(25,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3$57:,7+2877+((;35(66:5,77(13(50,66,212)02',)<'(6,*1%8,/'//&

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7+(6('5$:,1*6$5(,17(1'('$65()(5(1&()25&/,(176&2175$&72569(1'256
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 *29(510(17$*(1&,(6&2168/7$176$1'3(56211(/',5(&7/<,192/9(',17+,6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 352-(&721/<,1$&&25'$1&(:,7+7+,6127,&(




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6XPPHU+LOO5HPRGHO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          $




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                            '(02/,7,21 0$,1/(9(/




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6+ROODGD\%OYG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      +ROODGD\87
                                                                                                                                                               $ 
                                                                                    $




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                            :,1'2: ),;('7<3( 6&+('8/(
                                                                                                                     6,=(                 +($'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                 0$5.            &2817         :,'7+     +(,*+7          +(,*+7         127(6                                                   
                                                                               0$,1/(9(/
                                                                                     $                                   




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                             '225$1')5$0(6&+('8/(
&?8VHUV?5LOH\:HOFK?'RFXPHQWV?7D\ORU9LFWRULDQ5HPRGHO$BULOH\%+=3-UYW




                                                                                                                '225
                                                                                                                             6,=(                                                                                     $
                                                                               '22512           5012             :          +           7+.           127(6
                                                                               0$,1/(9(/
                                                                                                                                       )5$0('23(1,1*




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                       )5$0('23(1,1*
                                                                                                                               
                                                                               833(5/(9(/
                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                              

                                                                               9(5,)<'225$1':,1'2:'(7$,/6:,7+,17(5,25'(6,*135,2572385&+$6($1',167$//$7,21




                                                                                                                                                                                                         

                                                                                                                                                                                                         $
               ),/(3$7+




                                                                                                                                                                                  0$,1/(9(/                                                                                    5(9,6,21



                                                                                                                                                                            $     


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6+((71$0(


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0$,1/(9(/3/$1
30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 352-(&7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 180%(5                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,668('$7(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '5$:1%<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  $XWKRU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3/277,0(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30
               3/27'$7(




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6&$/(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               $
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $6127('
                                                                                                                                        1(::25.*(1(5$/127(6
                                                                                                                                       ),(/'9(5,)<$//
                                                                                                                                         ',0(16,216,)
                                                                                                                                         ',0(16,2169$5<
                                                                                                                                         6,*1,),&$17/<127,)<
                                                                                                                                         02',)<'(6,*1%8,/'
                                                                                                                                       $//',0(16,21672)$&(
                                                                                                                                         2)678'25(;,67,1*
                                                                                                                                         ),1,6+81/(66127('
                                                                                                                                         27+(5:,6(




                                                                                                                                                                  7+('(6,*1&217$,1(':,7+,17+(6('5$:,1*6,67+(3523(57<2)02',)<'(6,*1%8,/'
                                                                                                                                                                  //&$1'6+$//127%(5(352'8&('&23,('2586(',1$1<27+(5:$<,1:+2/(25,1
                                                                                                                                                                  3$57:,7+2877+((;35(66:5,77(13(50,66,212)02',)<'(6,*1%8,/'//&

                                                                                                                                                                  7+(6('5$:,1*6$5(,17(1'('$65()(5(1&()25&/,(176&2175$&72569(1'256
                                                                                                                                                                  *29(510(17$*(1&,(6&2168/7$176$1'3(56211(/',5(&7/<,192/9(',17+,6
                                                                                                                                                                  352-(&721/<,1$&&25'$1&(:,7+7+,6127,&(




                                                                                        6287+                   :(67




                                                                                                                                                                                         6XPPHU+LOO5HPRGHO
                                                                               $$        $$     




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6+ROODGD\%OYG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       +ROODGD\87
&?8VHUV?5LOH\:HOFK?'RFXPHQWV?7D\ORU9LFWRULDQ5HPRGHO$BULOH\%+=3-UYW
               ),/(3$7+




                                                                                                                                                                  5(9,6,21




                                                                                                                                                                  6+((71$0(


                                                                                                                                                                           %8,/',1*(/(9$7,216
30




                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                  352-(&7

                                                                                          ($67                      1257+                                         180%(5
                                                                                                                                                                  ,668('$7(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  

                                                                               $$        $$     
                                                                                                                                                                  '5$:1%<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   $XWKRU
                                                                                                                                                                  3/277,0(
                                                                                                                                                                                           30
               3/27'$7(




                                                                                                                                                                  6&$/(
                                                                                                                                                                                $
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $6127('
5HVWRUDWLRQ3URFHVVLQWKH:LOOLDP%RZWKRUSH+RPH
+HUHLVWKHKRPHDVZHIRXQGLWLQ:HIRXQGVLJQLILFDQWGDPDJHWRWKHKRPHIURPWHQDQWVOLYLQJWKHUHDVZHOODVRYHUDOOQHJOHFWGLVUHSDLU
DQGGHFD\


$OOH[WHULRUZDOOVRIKRPHZHUHFRYHUHGLQYLQ\OVLGLQJPXFKRIZKLFKZDVGDPDJHGE\KHDWRUZDWHU

3DLQWHGEULFNZDVRQWKHQRUWKHDVWHUQDQGQRUWKIDFDGH

3RUFKZDVDGGHGRQLQPLGWZHQWLHWKFHQWXU\DQGZDVXQWDEOH
7KHSRUFKFDXVHGVLJQLILFDQWOHDNLQJWKURXJKWKHHDVWZDOO




      'XHWRLPSURSHUSDLQWLQJWHFKQLTXHWKHEULFNZDV
      XQVWDEOHDQGWXUQLQJWRGXVWRQFRQWDFW
5HVWRUDWLRQ3URFHVVLQWKH:LOOLDP%RZWKRUSH+RPH
      +HUHLVWKHQRUWKDQGQRUWKHDVWHUQIDFDGHRIWKHROGHVWSRUWLRQRIWKHKRPHZLWKODQGVFDSHGDPDJH%ULFNZDVEULWWOHDQGZRXOGWXUQWRGXVW
       DWWKHWRXFK




                                                                             /DQGVFDSHGDPDJHRQHOGHVWSRUWLRQRIWKHKRPH7KHFRPELQDWLRQRI
                                                                             WKHSDLQWWKDWSXOOHGPRLVWXUHWRWKHVWURQJHVWSDUWRIWKHEULFN WKH
                                                                             RXWVLGHOD\HU ZLWKWKHSUHVVXUHRIWKHODQGVFDSLQJGDPDJHGWKHEULFN
                                                                             VRWKDWDQ\H[SRVHGEULFNIURPWKHSHHOLQJSDLQWZDVWXUQLQJWRGXVW
                                                                             RQFRQWDFW
5HVWRUDWLRQ3URFHVVLQWKH:LOOLDP%RZWKRUSH+RPH
      0RUHLPDJHVRIEULFNGDPDJH
      ,LQVWDOOHGVLGLQJWRWKLVSRUWLRQRIWKHKRPHWRSURWHFWWKHZDOOVIURPIDOOLQJGRZQ6LQFHZHZHUHVXSSRUWLQJRQWKHLQVLGHZHWLHGWKH
       H[WHULRUVLGLQJWRJHWKHUWRWKHLQWHULRUDQGZHHVVHQWLDOO\³VDQGZLFKHG´WKHEULFNWRKROGWKHZDOOVRQWRWKHVWUXFWXUH




                                                                                                  3DLQWKDGSXOOHGPRLVWXUHWRWKHVWURQJHVWSDUWRI
                                                                                                  WKHEULFN WKHRXWVLGHOD\HU VRWKDWDQ\H[SRVHG
                                                                                                  EULFNIURPWKHSHHOLQJSDLQWZDVWXUQLQJWRGXVWRQ
                                                                                                  FRQWDFW
5HVWRUDWLRQ3URFHVVLQWKH:LOOLDP%RZWKRUSH+RPH

+HUHLVWKHSRUFKDVZHIRXQGLW'XHWRH[WHQVLYHWHUPLWHGDPDJHZHUHPRYHGLWDQGIRXQGLWKDGFDXVHGH[WHQVLYHOHDNLQJLQWKHIURQWZDOO:H
HVWLPDWHLWKDGEHHQDGGHGLQWKHPLGWZHQWLHWKFHQWXU\

$UHSOLFDWHGSRUFKZDVQRWSRVVLEOHLQRUGHUWRNHHSWKHLQWHJULW\RIWKHQRUWKHDVWDQGQRUWKSDUWRIWKHKRPHLQWDFW




     3RUFKGHVLJQDQGDWWDFKPHQWZDVGHFD\LQJWKH
     IURQWHDVWHOHYDWLRQRIWKHKRPH
5HVWRUDWLRQ3URFHVVLQWKH:LOOLDP%RZWKRUSH+RPH

7KHVHLPDJHVVKRZKRZWKHSRUFKZDVMXVWUHVWLQJDJDLQVWWKHRULJLQDOSDUWRIWKHKRPH VRXWKHDVWIDFDGH 7KHEULFNZDVGDPDJHGKHUHIURPWKH
SUHVVXUHEXWQRQDLOLQJVFUHZVRUJOXHZRXOGEHDSSUSULDWHKHUHWRDWWDFKJLYHQWKHZHDNQHVVRIWKHEULFN

7KHSRUFKDWWDFKPHQWEHORZWKHHDYHRQWKHHDVWIDFDGHFDXVHGPDMRUZDWHUGDPDJHDQGUHTXLUHGPHWRUHPRYHWKHIURQWZDOODQGSRXUIRRWLQJV
IRXQGDWLRQDQGIUDPHDQHZHDVWZDOO
5HVWRUDWLRQ3URFHVVLQWKH:LOOLDP%RZWKRUSH+RPH

:HGHVLJQHGDSRUFKWKDWFRXOGEHSURSHUO\DWWDFKHGWRWKHHDVWIDFDGHRIWKHKRPHEXWZRXOGQRWLPSDFWWKHHOGHVWSRUWLRQRIWKHKRPH
7KHSRUFKLVEDVHGRQKRPHVRIWKHH[DFWVDPHDJHLQ6DQ)UDQFLVFR&$
5HVWRUDWLRQ3URFHVVLQWKH:LOOLDP%RZWKRUSH+RPH                             IURQWSRUFKZLWKGHQWLOFXUYHGDQG

+HUHDUHWKHGUDZLQJVZHXVHGWREXLOGWKHSRUFKDQGWKHLQVSLUDWLRQKRPH   VWUDLJKWFRQFHSWZLWKGRXEOHGRRUV
5HVWRUDWLRQ3URFHVVLQWKH:LOOLDP%RZWKRUSH+RPH

6LGLQJ
    $OOH[WHULRUZDOOVRIKRPHH[FHSWIRUVRXWKHDVWHUQDQGQRUWKIDFDGHZHUHFRYHUHGLQYLQ\OVLGLQJPXFKRIZKLFKZDVGDPDJHGE\KHDWRU
       ZDWHU




                                   'DPDJHGVLGLQJPHOWHGIURPEORZHULQVWDOOHGLQNLWFKHQLOOHJDOO\
5HVWRUDWLRQ3URFHVVLQWKH:LOOLDP%RZWKRUSH+RPH

6LGLQJ
+HUHZHVHHWKHQHZGHJUHHVLGLQJEDVHGRIIDKRPHRIWKHVDPHDJH




                                                                         GHJUHHODSDQGVTXDUHWULPRQ
                                                                         FXUYHGGRXEOHGRRUV
5HVWRUDWLRQ3URFHVVLQWKH:LOOLDP%RZWKRUSH+RPH

:LQGRZV
   +HUHZHKDYHDQLPDJHRIWKHRULJLQDOFXUYHGRSHQLQJV2YHUWKH\HDUVWKH\ZHUHUHSODFHGZLWKVTXDUHYLQ\OZLQGRZVDQGILOOHGLQZLWKVRPH
     W\SHRIGHFRUDWLYHPRXOGLQJV
5HVWRUDWLRQ3URFHVVLQWKH:LOOLDP%RZWKRUSH+RPH
1HZ:LQGRZV
   :HXVHGFXUYHG9LFWRULDQDUFKZLQGRZVIURP0DUYLQ7KHVHDUHZRRGRQWKHLQWHULRUDQGZRRGFODGRQWKHH[WHULRUZLWKXOWUDWKLQ
      VDVKHVDNLQWRKRPHVFLUFD
     :HFKRVHPXOOLRQHGZLQGRZVWRPDWFKKRPHVF:HDOVRXVHGSHULRGDSSURSULDWHPRXOGLQJV
   6PDOOZLQGRZRQHDVWIDFDGHFRXOGQRWEHHQODUJHGRUFXUYHGWKHRSHQLQJZDVQRWFXUYHGDQGZDVVHWZLWKLQDGHHSIUDPHGURRP:H
      RUGHUHGDQHZZLQGRZWRILWUHFWDQJXODUZLWKVDVK


                                                                                 +HUHLVDQH[DPSOHRIDQKRPHFXUYHGZLQGRZV
  5HSODFHPHQWZLQGRZVPLPLFODWHYLFWRULDQ                               ZLWKVWUDLJKWWULP :HEVWHU6WUHHW6)
5HVWRUDWLRQ3URFHVVLQWKH:LOOLDP%RZWKRUSH+RPH

7ULP
+HUHZHVHHWKHWULPWKDWKDGGHWHULRUDWHGWKDWZDVRULJLQDOFHGDU:HUHSODFHGDOOWULPDQGUHVWRUHGZLWKWKHH[DFWVDPHGHWDLOLQJRQDOODUHDV
ZKHUHFHGDUWULPZDVSUHVHQW7KLVLQFOXGHVHYHU\UDNHHDYHFRUEHODQGFHGDUVKLQJOHVW\OH



 2ULJLQDOFRUEHODQGGHWDLORI
 GLDPRQGVFDOORSDQGILVKVFDOH
 WULP                                                                                                         7RGD\UHVWRUHGWULPDQGFRUEHOV
5HVWRUDWLRQ3URFHVVLQWKH:LOOLDP%RZWKRUSH+RPH

+HUHZHVHHWKHQRUWKHOHYDWLRQDFFHVVWRWKHDSDUWPHQWZKHQZHIRXQGWKHKRXVHLQ7KH\ZHUHXQVDIHDQGQHHGHGWREHUHEXLOW'XHWRWKH
H[LVWLQJWHQDQWZHKDGWRZDLWWRUHEXLOGDERXWPRQWKV




                                                                6WDLUVFUHDWHGLQDSRRUO\EXLOWPDQQHUKDGQRKLVWRULFUHIHUHQFHWRWKH
                                                                UHVWRIWKHKRPHYLQ\OVLGLQJZDVGDPDJHGDVZHOO
5HVWRUDWLRQ3URFHVVLQWKH:LOOLDP%RZWKRUSH+RPH
+HUHZHVHHWKHUHEXLOWVWDLUVDQGWKHLQVSLUDWLRQ9LFWRULDQKRPH   ´FHGDUSRVWVDQGWUHLOODJHWRPLPLFKRPH




 %DVHGRIIDGHVLJQIURPD6DQ$QVHOPR&$KRPH
 5HFHVVHGWUHLOODJHFDSVDQG´FHGDUSRVWV
5HVWRUDWLRQ3URFHVVLQWKH:LOOLDP%RZWKRUSH+RPH

6FRSHRISUREOHPVWR6$9(WKLVKLVWRULFKRPH XQGHUWDNHQEHWZHHQ

     7HUPLWHHUDGLFDWLRQSHVWFRQWUROVHUYLFHVWKDWLQFOXGHGLQMHFWLQJWKHVRLOUHPHGLDWLRQLQWKHFHLOLQJVDQGURRIUDIWHUVDQGUHIUDPLQJRI
      GHWHULRUDWHGKHDGHUVLQWKHHDVWURRPV
     1HZURRIGDPDJHGURRIZDVOHDNLQJLQWRDOOURRPV
     5HPRYDORISRUFKDGGHGRQLQWKFDQGGDPDJLQJIURQWDGREHZDOOZDWHUOHDNLQJWKURXJKWRSRIZDOOZKHUHDWWDFKHG'DPDJHWRROG
      EULFN
     ,QVWDOOQHZIURQWSRUFKDSSURSULDWHWR
     )URQWHDVWZDOOUHSODFHVLQFHDGREHZDVGDPDJHGE\VSRUFKDQGZDVIDOOLQJGRZQ
     )ORRUMRLVWVUHPRYHIURPVRLODQGFUHDWHQHZMRLVWVRQFHIRRWLQJVDQGIRXQGDWLRQVDUHUHSODFHG
     1HZIRRWLQJVIRXQGDWLRQVDSSOLHGWRIDFHRISUHYLRXVIRXQGDWLRQKROGHQWLUHKRPHXS
     )UDPLQJRQLQWHULRUZDOOVLQKRPHWRDOORZIRUSURSHUHOHFWULFDOLQVXODWLRQDQGVXSSRUWRILQWHULRUZDOOV KLUHHQJLQHHUIRUSODQ
     1HZZLQGRZVYLQ\OZLQGRZVLQQRUWKDQGVRXWKZDOOVRIKRPHDUHOHDNLQJ
     1HZLQWHULRUDQGH[WHULRUGRRUVGRRUVKDYHEHHQNLFNHGLQDQGGDPDJHGE\WHQDQWVRUWKHLU³IULHQGV´RQHLQWHULRUGRRULVVWKH
      UHVWDUHYLQ\OUHSODFHPHQWV
     )URQWGRRUWREHUHSODFHGZLWKGRXEOHVHWILWWLQJVW\OHWRDOORZIRUZLGHUHQWUDQFH H[LVWLQJGRRULVRQO\´ZLGH
     6LGLQJUHSODFHVLGLQJRQZHVWVRXWKDQGHDVWIURQWGRRUHOHYDWLRQLVDOOYLQ\O9LQ\OLVGDPDJHGDQGLVOLWHUDOO\³PHOWLQJ´GXHWRH[KDXVW
      IDQRQZHVWZDOODQGVRXWKZDOO9LQ\ORQPRWKHULQODZDSDUWPHQWLVGDPDJHGDQGQRWZDWHUSURRIHGOHDNLQJLVRFFXUULQJWKURXJK
      VN\OLWHDQGVLGLQJ
     %ULFNLQYHVWLJDWHSDLQWDQGUHVWRULQJEULFNRQHDVWHOHYDWLRQ
     5HQRYDWHLQWHULRUWREULQJSURSHUKYDFHOHFWULFDODQGSOXPELQJ
     5HVWRUHDOOLQWHULRUPRXOGLQJVIORRUVZDOOV
     8SGDWHNLWFKHQUHPRYHLOOHJDOJDVVWRYHDQGEORZHUPHOWLQJHDYHDQGVLGLQJXSGDWHHOHFWULFDO
     3DLQW
     0RWKHULQ/DZVWDLUUHSODFHPHQWVWDLUVDUHLOOVXSSRUWHGULFNHW\DQGQHHGWREHUHSODFHGDVVRPHDUHDVDUHGLVLQWHJUDWLQJ
     ([WHULRUXSGDWHVILJXUHRXWIORRGLQJLVVXHDWHDVWZDOORIKRPHLQVWDOOIUHQFKGUDLQVXQGHUODQGVFDSLQJODQGVFDSHWRSURWHFWWUHHV
      UHPRYHDQ\GHDGWUHHVSDLQWZRRGZRUNZKHUHSRVVLEOHUHVWRUHZRRGZRUNZKHUHQHHGHG
Planning Commission
Community Development
Department City of Holladay
801.527.3890

 FILE# 26-1-04                                     PARTIAL STREET VACATION- HILLSDEN DR.
 ADDRESS:                                                       DECISION TYPE:
  2755 E Hillsden Dr.                                           Legislative:

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION: 22-11-354-002                               Public Hearing Required. PC shall make a recommendation to
  COM 260.7 FT E FR SW COR SEC 11 T 2S R 1E SL MER N 8^
                                                                City Council to either approve or disapprove the request. All
  W 180 FT E 55.04 FT S 18^22'10" E 187.82 FT W 87.4 FT M OR    motions require findings which support the reccomendation.
  L TO BEG. 0.28 AC. 6585-2276 8333-1606 8437-2838,6992
  8512-1564 8512-1573 8541-4030 8674-1324 8995-7633 9544-9242   Holladay Ord. 13.06.050.F2,13.07
  10552-7732




 APPLICANT/REPRESENTATIVE:
  Rock and Jolynn Schutjer                                      SITE VICINITY MAP

 PROPERTY OWNER:
  Rock and Jolynn Schutjer

 ZONING:
  R-1-43

 GENERAL PLAN DISTRICT:
  Country Estates
 CITY COUNCIL DISTRICT:
  District #5
 PUBLIC NOTICE DETAILS:
  Mailed 2/20/2026

 REQUEST:
  Vacation of a Street, Right of Way, or Easeme

 APPLICABLE REGULATIONS:
  13.10A.150B




 EXHIBITS:
  Zone map
  Staff Report
  Applicant Narrative
  Applicant supporting doc.
                                                                Notes:




 STAFF:
  Justice Tuffour, City Planner; Jon Teerlink, CED Director


                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                    CITY OF HOLLADAY
                                                                                                           Planning Commission
                                                                                                              February 27th 2026
                                                                                                                        Item #2
Request:            PARTIAL STREET VACATION – INTERSECTION OF 2755 E HILLSDEN DR.
Project:            “E Hillsden Dr. Partial Street Vacation”
Address:            2755 E Hillsden Drive
Zone:               R-1-43 (Residential, Single Family Zone)
Applicant:          Rock and Jolynn Schutjer
File No:            26-1-04
Notice:             Mailed 02/20/2026
Staff:              Justice Tuffour & Jonathan Teerlink

GOVERNING ORDINANCES:                                     14.48          STREET VACATIONS
                                                          13.10A.150.B   VACATING A STREET, RIGHT OF WAY, OR EASEMENT

REQUIRED PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION: Legislative
The City Council, upon recommendation from the Planning Commission, is authorized to approve an amendment to a subdivision
or an amendment to a recorded plat that includes the creation of, or amendment or vacation of, all or part of a public street or other
public easement or right-of-way. Amending a subdivision plat requires review and approval by the Land Use Authority (Planning
Commission). Decisions and approval must be during public meeting. The notice for the required public hearing of this first step, with
a mailed notice to all properties accessing this portion of the street proposed to be vacated

SUMMARY
Review and consideration of an application by Rock and Jolynn Schutjer, applicant and owners of 2755 E Hillsden Drive to vacate a
portion of unused right of way, directly west of their property on Hillsden Drive, and to include the area into applicant’s property
(which is not part of a subdivision)

TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTE ANAYSIS
S Hillsden Drive is a public street in Holladay City that extends approximately 568 ft north from the intersection of E Hillsden Dr and
5345 S, terminating at the eastern intersections of Holladay Blvd. The subject street currently has a right of way width of about 70 ft
and provides residential neighborhood access for abutting properties unto secondary roads like Holladay Blvd (east) and Haven Ln
(west). The petitioners of this application (The Schutjers) own the property immediately east of the subject street intersection.




Hillsden Dr. Partial Street Vacation
While a written narrative is yet to be provided by the petitioners, early conversations and cross-verification from street and aerial view
imagery indicates that the portion of proposed area to be vacated on the subject street has been utilized by the applicants for
landscaping purposes. Complementary site plans and street views show that a driveway and fence have been installed in this area for
a while, with no current usability for vehicle travel or sidewalk installations.

In light of these circumstances, the petitioners propose a partial vacation of the portion of the street already used for landscaping and
driveway to enable them directly invest in necessary improvements, allowing for responsible maintenance, improved neighborhood
appearance, and better utilization of the space – while retaining sufficient right-of-way that meets minimum residential street access
width requirements. City ordinance §2.11.300, 13.10A.150.B and §14.48 allows an applicant to petition the city to vacate portions of
public right of way. The applicant, as the abutting property owner, is interested in receiving this ‘unused’ public property.




Existing Condition of Subject Street




Plot Map Showing Subject Street and Adjoining Lots



Hillsden Dr. Partial Street Vacation
The Technical Review Committee (TRC) evaluated the proposal with respect to the General Plan’s roadway classification function,
current use, and neighborhood impacts. The TRC determined that the roadway currently functions as a secondary residential street,
providing vehicular connectivity to other neighborhoods and immediate direct driveway access for adjacent lots. While the General
Plan recommends the he current width of such street typologies to be between 20 ft and 50 ft, the current right of way width is about
70 ft. In terms of current use, the portion proposed to be vacated is limited to private landscaping and fence installed by the petiotioners,
with no foreseeable need for City expansion or improvements. Moreover, the current width (even with landscaping encroachments)
does not limit emergency access or travel throughput (i.e., level of service). The TRC further finds that the proposal does not adversely
affect neighborhood safety, aesthetics, or right-of-way access, and does not create any zoning nonconformities related to lot size or
area standards.

RECOMMENDATION
All required materials for the petition for street vacation have been submitted and reviewed by the Technical Review Committee
(TRC). The application is deemed complete and ready for Planning Commission review and recommendation. The TRC finds the
proposed partial street vacation to be appropriate, subject to the conditions outlined in the recommended findings. The Planning
Commission should hold the required public hearing and deliberate in accordance with Holladay City Ordinances 13.10.080.D and
14.48 before forwarding a recommendation to the City Council. Staff has provided recommended findings for consideration.

RECOMMENDED FINDINGS:
   1) All properties subject to this application will remain in compliance with the R-1-43 zoning regulations and standards.
   2) No new property, lots, or right of way will be created by the application.
   3) Proposed area to be vacated must begin at a surveyed distance of 25 ft from the center of the travel lane, in order to meet
       the General Plan’s roadway classification requirement.
   4) If approved and combined with existing parcel(s), a lot consolidation shall be completed.
   5) If the City conveys the vacated land to adjacent property owner, the demarcated parcel must be purchased at appraised
       market value.
   6) Unified Fire Authority (UFA) does not have any concerns with the proposed partial vacation, as no limitations are imposed
       on Fire Department access turnaround or snow storage requirements.
   7) If approved, property owner must work with the Public Works Department to configure the intersection design at the south
       western corner of the applicant’s property in a way that ensures travel safety and visibility.
   8) Good Cause for the vacation is established based on the following findings:
           a. The portion of street requested for vacation is operationally defunct for travel, connectivity, and unmaintained
           b. Proposed investments to use the space will improve neighborhood appearance
           c. Maintains city standard public road dimensions and does not completely limit access
   9) Neither the public interest nor any person will be materially injured by the vacation.
   10) No windfall enrichment to the abutting property owner is found when considering the added area and its relation to
       substantial property right(s) (i.e. the added area will not provide subdivision opportunity, added building height or
       additional land uses not currently enjoyed by property within the vicinity, etc.).

MOTION EXAMPLES
“I _______ move to recommend (approval, Denial, or to Continue) the PARTIAL STREET VACATION at 2755 E Hillsden Drive
at the intersection of E Hillsden Dr and 5345 S on behalf and in benefit for “2755 E HILLSDEN DRIVE” a residential property in the
R-1-43 zone, upon finding that the property:




Hillsden Dr. Partial Street Vacation
Hillsden Dr. Partial Street Vacation
                         NOTICE OF A PUBLIC MEETING
                          PARTIAL STREET VACATION

Date:                           Tuesday March 3rd 2026
Time:                           As close to 6:00 PM as possible
Location:                       CITY HALL – City Council Chambers
Hearing Body:                   Planning Commission, City Council


Notice is hereby given that the City of Holladay Planning Commission will
conduct a public hearing during their review of a proposal by Rock Shujter
to vacate a portion of Hillsden at 2755 East Hillsden. During this meeting,
the Commission will review the request and forward their
recommendation to the City Council for a final review and decision. All
considerations will be reviewed by the Planning Commission for
compliance with Holladay Ord. 14.48, and 13.10A.150B
**No zone or ordinance change is proposed in conjunction with this application. **

Please submit comments via email by 5:00 pm on 03/02/2026 to Justice
Tuffour jtuffour@holladayut.gov. Emailed comments received by the
designated times will be forwarded to the Commission prior to the meeting.
Additional information regarding this item & instructions how to join this
meeting remotely can be found on the City’s website and on the posted
agenda, prior to the meeting. Interested parties are encouraged to watch the
video stream of the meeting on the City of Holladay Website.


ATTENTION:      This notice was mailed on 02/20/2026 by order of the Community and Economic
Development Director, Jonathan Teerlink, to all directly affected properties from the subject property. If you
are not the owner of your residence, please notify the owner regarding this matter. Thank you.




                           NOTICE OF A PUBLIC MEETING
                            PARTIAL STREET VACATION

 Date:                           Tuesday March 3rd 2026
 Time:                           6:00 PM
 Location:                       CITY HALL – City Council Chambers
 Hearing Body:                   Planning Commission, City Council


Notice is hereby given that the City of Holladay Planning Commission will
conduct a public hearing during their review of a proposal by Rock Shujter
to vacate a portion of Hillsden at 2755 East Hillsden. During this meeting,
the Commission will review the request and forward their
recommendation to the City Council for a final review and decision. All
considerations will be reviewed by the Planning Commission for
compliance with Holladay Ord. 14.48, and 13.10A.150B
**No zone or ordinance change is proposed in conjunction with this application. **

Please submit comments via email by 5:00 pm on 03/02/2026 to Justice
Tuffour jtuffour@holladayut.gov. Emailed comments received by the
designated times will be forwarded to the Commission prior to the meeting.
Additional information regarding this item & instructions how to join this
meeting remotely can be found on the City’s website and on the posted
agenda, prior to the meeting. Interested parties are encouraged to watch the
video stream of the meeting on the City of Holladay Website.

ATTENTION:          This notice was mailed on 02/20/2026 by order of the Community and Economic
ATTENTION: This notice was mailed on 06/30/2021 by order of the Community and Economic Development Director,
Development     Director,
LaNiece Davenport,    to allJonathan
                              residentsTeerlink,
                                        within 500to all directly
                                                      feet        affected
                                                           from the        properties
                                                                      subject                                              you
                                                                                                               owner ofIf your
                                                                                                      not theproperty.
                                                                                                 aresubject
                                                                                         If youthe
                                                                              property. from
are
residence,    owner
     not theplease   of your
                   notify       residence,
                          the owner        please
                                      regarding  thisnotify theThank
                                                                 owneryou.
                                                      matter.           regarding this matter. Thank you.
                                   NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay Planning Commission will hold a public hearing on
Tuesday, March 3rd 2026 as close to 6:00 P.M. as possible. The purpose of the hearing is to accept a
comment period during consideration of an application to vacate a portion of Hillesden Drive, a public
right of way at 2755 East Hillsden.

The proposed street vacation intends to modify the width of the right of way from sixty-six feet to fifty
feet to align with current improvements at this short section of public street.

The proposed amendment is available for public inspection on the City’s website
www.holladayut.gov and at the Community Development Dept. during normal business hours.
The public may remotely watch the live video stream of the meeting -
https://cityofholladay.com/government/agendas_and_minutes.php To make a public comment or
to make a comment during any public hearing may provide such comments as follows: In-
person attendance: at Holladay City Hall or you can Email your comments by 5:00 pm on the
date of the meeting to jtuffour@holladayut.gov.




CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I, Stephanie N. Carlson, the City Recorder of the City of Holladay, certify that the above agenda notice was
posted at City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov the Utah Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn,
and was emailed to the Salt Lake Tribune and Desert News and others who have indicated interest.

DATE POSTED: [ date ]
Stephanie N. Carlson MMC,
City Recorder City of Holladay
19-9-19-11
 Narrative detailing the request to the Planning Commission detailing the operation of the proposed land use. This letter
    should explain the nature of the project including traffic impacts (if any), etc. to assist staff and the Planning Commission
    better understand the request. If the proposed land use requires a conditional approval the letter should address why the


OWNER: KMW DEVELOPMENT, LLC
2733 E. PARLEYS WAY, SUITE 300
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84109

DESIGNER: WOODBURY ARCHITECTS

This application is a comprehensive development plan for Blocks H, I and J at Holladay Hills.


The project has been divided into 4 phases. Construction of all 4 phases are scheduled to
occur in 2026-2027.

A new subdivision plat is in the process of approvals and is attached. The phasing is
attached to each of the six lots created by the new subdivision, a copy of which is included in
this package.

Phase 1 - Lots 3 and 6 - pad preparation for Lifetime and the Parking Structure. The existing
stockpile of dirt will be graded out to establish the final grades of both lots. Geopiers will be
installed to support both the Lifetime building and the Parking Structure. March - June 2026

Phase 2 - Lots 3 and 6 - Construction of both the Lifetime building and the Parking Structure
- June 2026 - October 2027

Phase 3 - Construction of the Lot 4 and Lot 5 retail buildings. Also occurring during this time
will be a rebuild of the connector road from Amy to Chanin to install utilities required for the
retail buildings - March 2027-October 2027.

Phase 4 - Lot 2 Retail Building - depending on timing of lease signings, these two buildings
are expected to be constructed 2027.
OWNER: KMW DEVELOPMENT, LLC                                                                                 FEBRUARY 10, 2026
2733 E. PARLEYS WAY, SUITE 300                               HOLLADAY HILLS
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84109
                                                             CONCEPT PLAN
DESIGNER: WOODBURY ARCHITECTS


                                                                   SUNSET DRIVE




                             LOT : 1
                        AREA : 2.763 ACRES
                          120,388 Sq. Ft.
                         4832 S. CHANIN LANE                                         60,000 SF
                                                         405 CAR, 3 LEVEL             2 STORY
                   FUTURE DEVELOPMENT AREA               PARKING STRUCTURE         FITNESS CLUB
   CHA
    NIN
     VIST




                                                                                                                AD
                                                                                                             O
         A DR




                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                            E
                                                                                                          IR
                                               RETAIL/
          IVE




                                                                                                        SH
                                               RESTAURANTS




                                                                                                    IL
                                                                        RETAIL             RETAIL




                                                                                                    W
                     RETAIL



                                                                RODEO WALK DRIVE




                                                                                                                      8.46 ACRES
         N
                  SINGLE FAMILY




ZONING: REGIONAL MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT
COTTONWOOD SITE DEVELOPMENT MASTER PLAN
                                                                                                       EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               26. Agreement and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SECTION LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ROYAL HOLLADAY HILLS BLOCKS H I J                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                           EAS. L 18. 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        restrictions between
                        40.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -L
                                                                                                                                R 29.10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S 89°35'26" E 2643.20'                                                                                                                                                         Horman, and
            Right of Way Agreement in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NORTH QUARTER CORNER OF SECTION                                    CALCULATED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Cottonwood Inc.
               favor of Salt Lake City,
                                                                                                                            Δ 036 54 32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9, TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S BDI IDING BLOCK H, I J A ORTION OF BLOCK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               recorded June 12, 1980




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -L
                                                                                                                     CH AGL N13 12 59 E
            recorded April 16, 1954 as                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN.                                                         NORTHEAST QUARTER CORNER OF                                                                                                                                 as Entry No. 3443023,                                  K, ROYAL HOLLADAY HILLS S BDI ISION 2
                                                                                                                            CH L 18.42                                                                                                                                                                          FOUND S.L.CO. BRASS CAP MONUMENT
               Entry No. 1368561 and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SECTION 9, TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH,                                                                                                                              modified in agreement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WITH RING & LID                                                                     RANGE 1 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE &                                                                                                                             recorded Oct. 09, 2017                             LOCATED ITHIN, SALT LAKE CO NTY TAH. A ART




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
               also recorded April 20,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (STD FLAT 2.5" BC)                                                                      MERIDIAN. (STD FLAT 2.5" BC)                                                                                                                           as Entry # 10244996
            1954 as Entry No. 1368777                                                                                                                                                                                            S 76°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OF THE NORTHEAST     ARTER OF SECTION 9,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           26'18
             in Book 1080 at Page 264                                                                                                                                                                                                             "E2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              65.41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VERIFIED VIA FIELD LOCATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NORTH EST      ARTER OF SEC. 10, TO NSHI 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12-8-2025




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '                      SUN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SET                                                               NEW EASEMENT 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (PRIV   DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ATE)                 IVE                                         AREA TO BE ADDED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SO TH, RANGE 1 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE      ERIDIAN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4820
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SOU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   49.0'                              TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CITY OF HOLLADAY, TAH. R        ONE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ME ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MO PUB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RY LIC
                                                                                                                                                    4'
                                                                                                                                                                                Underground Right of Way Easement in favor of PacifiCorp,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LA RO


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -L
                                                                                                                                                 3.6
                                                                                                                                                                                an Oregon Corporation, d/b/a Rocky Mountain Power, its                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Right of Way Easement,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NE W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TYP. P.U.E. & PRIVATE




                                                                                                                                               21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  recorded January 11, 2008
                                          BLOCK B SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                   successors and assigns to construct, reconstruct, operate,                       UTILITY & EGRESS/                                                                                  24.5'




                                                                                                                                            "W
                                                                                                                                                                                maintain and repair electric transmission and other                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               as Entry No. 10321105 in




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                           RECORDED 4/15/2024                                                                                                                                                                                                        INGRESS EASE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Book 9558 at Page 2317.




                                                                                                                                         '15
                                                                                                                                                                                equipment and incidental purposes, over, under and across

                                                                                                                                    A
                                            ENTRY # 14228492                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        24.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             )
                                                                                                                          94 ST




                                                                                                                                          40
                                                                                                                                                                                a portion of the subject Land. Said Easement recorded

                                                                                                                                  T
                                                                                                                               AS


                                                                                                                                        1°
                                                                                                                                                                                January 6, 2021, as Entry No. 13524396, in Book 11094, at
                                                                                                                         VI
                                                                                                                            0E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N
                                                                                                                                    S3
                                                                                                                                                                                Page 4637.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N
                                                                                                                     VA IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    41
                                                                                                                              )1
                                                                                                                      AN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        °1
                                                                                                                          TE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             43
                                                                                                                  CH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -L
                                                                                                                  RI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    "W
                                                                                                                     (P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT : 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AREA : 2.763 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                  0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JS
                                                                                                               3.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        120,388 Sq. Ft.
                                                                                                             42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4832 S. CHANIN LANE
                                                                                                          "E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -L
                                                                                                       '15




                    PUBLIC UTILITY
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                     °4




                       EASEMENT
                                                                                                    31




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -L
                                                                                               N




                                                                                                                                                                             N 62°58'36" W
                                                                                                                                                                             209.93'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                               N6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -L
                                                                                                                                                     2°5
                                                                                                                                                          8'3
                                                                     24.5'                                                                                     6"
                                                                                                                                                                    W                                                                        BLOCK J                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                        20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -L
                                                                                                                                                S6                        9.9
                                                                                                                                                                               3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HEREBY NOW AMENDED
                                                                                                                                                  2°5
                                                                                                                                                 206 8'36" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BLOCK K LOT 1
                                                                               '
                                                                            .66




                                                                                                                                                    .63




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OWNER'S DEDICATION
                                                                        9
                                                                     20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CONTAINING 3000,062 Sq. ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            24.5'                                                                                     or 6.89 Acres
                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (P (UN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4833-4388 SOUTH
                                                                  5"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VA DEV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TE EL
                                                               0'1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SUNSET DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    )1 O

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         °1
                                                                 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      99 PE
                                                              1°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0 D)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IV
0S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         43


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EA
                                                         S3




     OU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E
       TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             "E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .  50                                                                                                                                                             42. Rocky Mountain
                                                                                                                                                CROSS ACCESS                                                                                                                                                                                                             94                                                                                                                                                                   Power Easement recorded




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.
                                                                                                                                                   EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                         E                                                                                                                                                                         May 19, 2022, as Entry No.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1                                                                                                                                                                                13955118, in Book 11340,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1'
                                                      24.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        °4                                                                                                                                                                                    at Page 5552.
                                                                                                                                                           LOT : 2                                                                                                                                                                                 48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                     AREA : 1.807 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N




                                                                                                                                                        78,713 Sq. Ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               °1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N 41°18'43" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S




                                                                                                                                                 1947 E. RODEO WALK DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NEW EASEMENT 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               41 70.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 230.75'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 °1 3'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AREA TO BE ADDED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "W




                                                                     RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8'4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                           DE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3"




                                                                                   OW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT : 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          °1
                                                                     (PR
                                                                                      ALK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                           IVA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AREA : 1.28 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -L
                                                                               T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TYP. P.U.E. &




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '4
                                                                                   E) 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (P
                                                                                               SO DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ME ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3"
                                                                                    8     30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PRIVATE UTILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            55,587 Sq. Ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AV
                                                                                                 UTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MO PUB
                 24.5'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     & EGRESS/




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 91
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1949 E. RODEO WALK DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INGRESS EASE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RY LIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1'
                                                                                                    N6
                                                                                                       2°5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BLOCK J                                  BLOCK I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LA RO
                                                                                                            8'3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NE W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                3"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HEREBY NOW AMENDED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -L
                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                         26                                                                     TYP. P.U.E. &                                                                                                                                                CONTAINING 151,106 Sq. Ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       42




                                                                                                                           8.4                                                                                                             L=31.42'                                                                                                                or 3.46 Acres
                                                                                                                               9'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Right of Way Easement,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                PRIVATE UTILITY &                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0'




                                                                                                                                                       26.5'                                                                               R=20.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1925 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                EGRESS/ INGRESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               recorded January 11, 2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ACKNOWLEDGMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Δ=090°00'00"
                                                                                                                                                                                                EASE.                                                                                                                                                          RODEO WALK DRIVE                                                                             29                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 as Entry No. 10321105 in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "E                                                                                                                                            "W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Book 9558 at Page 2317.                                                                                        33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8'2                                                                                                                                           17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1'            5
                                                                                                                                                                                               REF. TIE                                                            W                             °1 17'                                                                                                                                                   3.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N




                                                                                                                                               26.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7"                             3                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1'1 4'                         N 5 53.                                                                                                                                        8°          33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            41




                                                                                                                                                                                          N 58°18'39" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          °4                                                                                                                                                                              4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              °1




                                                                                                                                                                                                  90.64'                                                48 51.8                                                                                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S        7"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S 33°41'17" W                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7'                                                                                                                                                         '1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      pole line easement in favor of utah power and
            Underground Right of Way Easement in favor of PacifiCorp,                                                                                                                                                     23.18'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8.8                                                                                                                                                      °
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             41




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           17                                                                                                                                                        48                                                                                                                                                                               23. Rocky Mountain Power                                        light company, to construct, reconstruct,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               °1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      19




              an Oregon Corporation, d/b/a Rocky Mountain Power, its                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N
                                                                                                                                                                                              S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              operate, maintain and repair electric
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Easement recorded May 19, 2022,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '4
                                                                                                                                                                                                41




             successors and assigns to construct, reconstruct, operate,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      transmission and other equipment over, under
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    as Entry No. 13955118, in Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                  °1




                    maintain and repair electric transmission and other                                                                                                                                                               "W                    41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             °1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and across a portion of the subject land. said
                                                                                                                                                                                                     8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          °                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11340, at Page 5552.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8'
                                                                                                                                                                                                    '4




            equipment and incidental purposes, over, under and across                                                                                                                                                           41 14'                 48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                43
                                                                                                                                                                                                      3"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      easement recorded april 20, 1965, as entry no.
                                                                                                                         BLOCK D                                                                                              °
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            48 28.                 S                                       N 48°41'17" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "E
                a portion of the subject Land. Said Easement recorded




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                         E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2075986, in book 2317, at page 518.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           44.89'
                                                                                                                                                                                                           10




            January 6, 2021, as Entry No. 13524396, in Book 11094, at                                                                                                                                                                            "E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -L
                                                                                                                  CONTAINING 158,423 Sq. Ft.                                                                                                     7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1'1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25
                                                            Page 4637.
                                                                                                                                                                                                             68




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .7
                                                                                                                       or 3.636 Acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            °4 .09'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N 33°41'17" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       49.0'
                                                                                                                        1920 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N 32                                         23.18'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N 48°41'17" E 39.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -L
                                                                                                                    RODEO ALK DRI E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                       S 41°18'43" E
                                                        VICINITY MAP                                                                                                                                          30.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               pole line easement in favor of utah power and light




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               company, to construct, reconstruct, operate, maintain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N 41°18'43" W 47.83'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and repair electric transmission and other equipment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BLOCK LINE OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               over, under and across a portion of the subject land.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RECORD TO BE                                                                                                                                                                                                                said easement recorded september 1, 1965, as entry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      POWER EASEMENT                                                                                                                                   REMOVED                                                                                                                                                                                                                 no. 2107858, in book 2371, at page 200.                                                                                   C.L. R.O.W. MEAS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N 46°48'01" E 234.65'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ROYAL HOLIDAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT : 6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HILLS PARTNERS                                                                                                             BASIS OF BEARING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SECTION LINE                                                             AREA : 3.896 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                169,704 Sq. Ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           26.5'                                                LOT : 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N 00 03 51    2668.28 CALC.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        53.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LIEN HOLDER CONSENT TO RECORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          31




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N 00 02 52    2666.36 A.R. .                                                         1975 E. RODEO WALK DRIVE                                                                                                                                                NEW EASEMENT 3                                                                        EXISTING R.O.W FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AREA : 1.094 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           °23




                                                                                                      PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AREA TO BE ADDED                                                                      MEMORIAL ESTATES
                                                                                                                                                  24.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             47,669 Sq. Ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -L
                                                                                                     LOCATION                                                                                PACIFIC CORP POWER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               41




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C.L. R.O. .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           °1 18'4




                                                                                                                                                                                                         EASEMENT                                                                                                    1965 E. RODEO WALK DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BLOCK K LOT 2                                           L 8 .86
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              41




                                                                                                                                                               24.5'                          RECORDED JANUARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                43 3" W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      80




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R 0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N 41°18'43" W 15.87'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 °




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -L t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONTAINING 493 Sq.
                                                                                                                                                                                             6, 2021, AS ENTRY NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .48




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  or 0.01 Acres                                           Δ 0 1 54 52
                                                                                                                                                                                                          13524396,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CH AGL N10 50 35 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.




                                                                                                                                                                                                 IN BOOK 11094, AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CH L 82.21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             09.64'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           51




                                                                                                                                                                                                         PAGE 4637.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  °1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BLOCK H LOT 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RO (PRIV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  97




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EAS. L 19.34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DE ATE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HEREBY NOW AMENDED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          "W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '47" E 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O 483




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R 95.00
                                                                                                            NE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONTAINING 139,219 Sq. ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W 0 SO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             92
                                                                                                          LA OUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Δ 011 39 46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AL UT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         or 3.20 Acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      31. Quit Claim Deed for
                                                                                                       EW 0 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          K H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0'                                                                                                                                 2025 EAST                                                                                                                                                                                  CH AGL S19 16 58 E
                                                                                                     VI ) 493




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Original Buffer recorded




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S 09°29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W-L
                                                                                            Y TE                                                                                                             BLOCK E                                                                                                                                                                               6.                                                                                                                                  WILSHIRE ROAD                                                                                                                                                                                 CH L 19.30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXITING R.O.W FENCE
                                                                                          AM RIVA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 October 9, 2007 as Entry No.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      "E                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONTAINING 168,390 Sq. Ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10244997 in Book 9524 at                                                                                                                                                          SEE R.O.S. SURVERY FILE #
                                                                                               (P
                                                                                                                                                                                                            or 3.86 Acres                                                                                                                                                           17                        .  00                                                                                                                                                                                                Page 1815                                                                                                                                                         S2022-06-0373
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '                          6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               41                         12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8°
                                                                                                                                                                                                             1924 EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C.L. R.O.W. MEAS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N




                                                                                                                                                                                                        RODEO WALK DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5°0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              41




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EAS. L 6 .65                                                                                                                      N 25°06'51" W 62.60'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6'5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          °4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                °1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R 5.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Δ 051 40 44                                                                                                                              EAS. L 25.99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT : 5                                                                                                                                                                                        CH AGL S16 20 35




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          62.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R 425.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N 41°18'43" W 33.25'                                                                               AREA : 0.39 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CH L 65.38                                          4895 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                        ROYAL HOLLADAY HILLS BLOCKS H I J




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          60'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EAS. L 15.49                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Δ 003 30 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 42°10'57" W 35.69'                                                          SUNSET DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R 20.33                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CH AGL S26 51 5 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              16,988 Sq. Ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S BDI IDING BLOCK H, I J A ORTION OF BLOCK K,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C.L. R.O. .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            26.5'                                                                                                                             Δ 043 39 15                                                                                                                                                PARCEL A                                                                             CH L 25.98                            L 49.68                                                             ROYAL HOLLADAY HILLS S BDI ISION 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1977 E. RODEO WALK DRIVE                                                                                                                                                       EAS. L 65.66
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CH AGL N19 29 06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R 5.00                                                                      AREA : 0.28 ACRES                                                                                                             R 400.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOCATED ITHIN, SALT LAKE CO NTY TAH. A ART OF THE NORTHEAST        ARTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CH L 15.12                                                                                                                                                12,356 Sq. Ft.                                                                                                              Δ 00 06 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 41




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Δ 050 09 35                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OF SECTION 9,  NORTH EST    ARTER OF SEC. 10, TO NSHI 2 SO TH, RANGE 1 EAST,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CH AGL N28 40 19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    °




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CH AGL S6 15 44                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SALT LAKE BASE   ERIDIAN. CITY OF HOLLADAY, TAH. R      ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BLOCK F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CH L 49.65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N 02°20'32" E 32.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 25.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CH L 63.58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C.L. R.O.W. MEAS.                                        50     25      0                     50            100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONTAINING 198,133 Sq. ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REF. TIE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S                                                                                    N 32°13'48" W 72.99'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ILL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      81




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       or 4.54 Acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  24.5'                                YH 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WEST 143.25' 49.0'                                                                                                                                                   24.5'                                                                                 A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .                                        4880 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D SE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NL                                        RODEO WALK DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                               N 87°39'28" W 230.34'                                                                                                                            OL PHA 1082
                                                                                                    30. IRRIGATION                                                                                                                                                                     TO                                                                                                                                      S 87°39'28" E 135.37'                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L H    L     4                                                                                                                                                                       ( IN FEET )




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N 87°39'28" W 434.68'                                                                                                                                 YA    CK   138
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RO BLO RY #                                                                                                                                                                            1 inch = 50 ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JOHANSON
                                                                                                    PIPELINE EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N 00°03'51" W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               D                                                                   SUB. P.O.B.                                                                                                                                                                                                        WILSHIRE ROAD                                                                                                T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UB
                                                                                                    AGREEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                         26.5'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REF. TIE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      24.5'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SURVEY DESIGN SEPTIC PLANNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DEVELOPER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SURVEYING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          730.11'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (PRIVATE) 4955 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OWNER:
                                                                                                    RECORDED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EAST QUARTER CORNER OF SECTION 9,                                                                                                                                                                                                      AMENDED AND REINSTATED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LIC


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BLOCK G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYORS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L
                                                                                                    NOVEMBER 2, 2020 AS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGEIGV1 EAST, SALT                                                                                                                                                                                                    ROYAL HOLLADAY HILLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONTAINING 145,709 Sq.
                                                                                                    ENTRY NO. 13447958 IN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN, FOUND SALT LAKE                                                                                                                                                                                                        PHASE 2 SUB PLAT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ft. or 3.345 Acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P.O. BOX 18941
                                                                                                    BOOK ’11052 AT PAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COUNTY MONUMENT (STD FLAT 2.5" BC)                                                                                                                     RODEO WALK DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ENTRY # 14073158                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84118
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PREPARED:12/08/2025




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W)
                                                  ”                                                 4699.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4885 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Shane Johanson P.L.S. 801-815-2541

                                                                                                    AS DIMENSIONED


                    LEGEND                                                                                                                                                                                                   City Engineer                                                                                 Community Development                                                                                                                                                                                              Planning Commission                                                                       City Attorney                                                                        City of Holladay Approval                                                                                              Salt Lake County Recorder
                                                                                      SALT LAKE COUNTY SURVEYOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Health Department                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Number
                   = SECTIONAL CORNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Approved this_____________________day                                               Approval as to form this                                                 day                       Approved and accepted this                                                                               Recorded #
                   = STREET MONUMENT                                                                                                                                                                         Approved this_____________________day
                                                                                               RECORD OF SURVEY NUMBER S2021-04-0233                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   State of Utah, County of Salt Lake, recorded and filed at the request of
                   = REBAR & CAP TO BE SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Approved this_____________________day                                                                       Approved this_____________________day                                                           of_____________________A.D., 20____by                                               of                                                      A.D., 20                                                     day of                                , A.D. 20                         .                                                                                                                    Account
                     LS 70754114 R.S. JOHANSON                                                                                                                                                               of ___________________ A.D., 20                                                      .
                   = REPRESENTS PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of ___________________ A.D., 20                                                         .                   of ___________________ A.D., 20                                              .                  the Holladay Planning Commission.
                   = EASEMENT R.M.P.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Date                 Time                     Book                Page                  .              Sheet
                   = TYP. P.U.E. & PRIVATE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Manager
                     UTILITY & EGRESS/ INGRESS
                   = UTILITY EASEMENT VIA
                                                                                      Salt Lake County Surveyor / Reviewer                                                          Date                                                                                                                                  Community Development Director.                                                                             Salt Lake County, Health Department.                                                            Planning Commission Chair                                                           City of Holladay Attorney                                                                          Recorder                                                                                                  Fee $                                       Salt Lake County Recorder                                    of                       Sheets
                     PLAT                                                                                                                                                                                    City of Holladay Engineer                                                Date
                    PARKING SUMMARY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               K
                                                                                                            STALLS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SUNSET STREET PARKING 56 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SUNSET DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          40 STALLS STREET PARKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G                           22 additional spaces available once                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         K            IN                                parking structure retaining wall goes in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P   AR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                                      AD                                                                                                                                                                                                      T                                                                 4                                                      18
                                                                                                                                                                                   18                                                                                                                                                                  R   EE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ST
                                                                                                                                                 RO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AL                                       16
                                                                                                                                             Y



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ST
                                                                                                                                       DA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARKING STRUCTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3 LEVELS
                                                                                                                                       A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        39



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             405 SPACES
                                                                                                                                    LL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SURFACE PARKING
                                                                                                                               HO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SURFACE PARKING                                                                            132 SPACES
                                                                                                                                                                                                       40                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           22 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     134 SPACES
                                                                                                                            Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         22              22 22                                22 22                         22                                                                                                                                                                                                     ON BEVERLY
                                                                                                                          RA




                                                                                                                                             14                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          55
                                                                                                                      UR




                                                                                                                                                                     364                                                                                                       20                                                                                                                19 19
                                                                                                                                                                                               40                                                                       SPACES                                                                                16 18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L
                                                                                                                      M




                                                                                                                                                                   SPACES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     18                                                             20




                                                                                                                                                                     B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             17                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    16 STALLS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ST
                                                                                                                                                                                      38                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ON WILSHIRE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11 S
                                                                                                                       17                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,523 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TAL
                                                                                                                                                                   38                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,139 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             B1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2,6     70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,139 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,139 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  B1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G7                                      G12
                                                                                                                                          38                                                                                    3,5     60




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,139 SF                                    1,516 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   04                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,139 SF
                                                                                                                                125 TRADER JOES                                                                                                                                            B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1,407 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        B1                                                                1 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                G14




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  01



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,8               G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RKIN
                                                                                                                                REQUIRED SPACES                                                                            50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,404 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3,5                                                                      60                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,139 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J140




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       J150




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       61
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   B              SF                                                                                                                                                                                                         J160                                                                             I120        I130     I140       I150     I160                                 I190                                                                                                                                      G15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,8 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8,400 SF                                                                                                                                                                                 G57
                                                                                                                                     42                                                                                     F                                                          0                                                                                                                                                                  4,590 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                              B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4,500 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,501 SF

                                                                                                                                                                                                            2,3 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     01     3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3,312 SF 2,450 SF   2,450 SF   2,450 SF 2,450 SF                             3,650 SF                                                                                     1,413 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,407 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            B1            S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G56
                                                                                                                                                                                                               30 0                                                                        F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G4                                                                                                    G16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S                                                      2,5     05                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1,075 SF

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                J100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,139 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1,501 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    F                                                      18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G55
                                                                                                                                24
                                                                                                                                23                                                                                                                                              SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G3                                                             1,075 SF                                         G17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            B1                                                                                                                                  38,693 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,139 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G2                                                                           G54
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,139 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2,6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25   0   9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3 STALLS                                                                           12 STALLS                                                                                                                                               G40                                       1,412 SF                                         G18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,139 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,374 SF                                                                                      1,139 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G1                                                                                                                                         G19
                                                                                                                                                             VAN



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G41




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3,7 11                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1,723 SF                                                                                            G53                                     1,139 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     17 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,075 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,413 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2 STALLS                                                                                11 STALLS                                                                                                                                                          G42                                              G52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             B1                                                                          B190




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,491 SF
                                                                                                 A140                                RO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,075 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,075 SF

                                                                                                 6,500 SF                                                                                  B130
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2,8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            25    11                                                                     6,000 SF                                                                                               TAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G39                                     1,502 SF                                          G51
                                                                                                                                        Y   CE                                             13,360 SF                                             SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DE                      1,402 SF                                                                                  1,075 SF

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LLS                                                                                                                                  E100          E120                         E130
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STA                                                                        D40                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                 DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1,139 SF                                                                               1,075 SF
                                                                                                            20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3,721 SF                     6,013 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2,030 SF                                                                                                                                                                                             1,480 SF

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         B117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11                                                                                   2,900 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G37                                               G45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G49                                        1,618 SF

                                                                                                                                                      IV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DOWNTOWN LANE 12 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AL                                                                                                                                                      G22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,139 SF                                                                                  1,433 SF

                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1,075 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7,518 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G36                                                                                                                      1,139 SF
                                                                                      A130                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G46
                                                                                                                 38                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D20                                                                                                                                                           UP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    K                         1,407 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1,075 SF                                                            G23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DR
                                                                                      3,748 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4,758 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1,139 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ROOM




                                                                                                                      A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G35                                          1,075 SF                                              G24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                F100                                       IV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,596 SF                                                                                           1,515 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G48
                                                                                                                          19                                                                                                                                                                                             ALLS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E                                   G34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DN


                                                                                                                                                                                                       B123                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7,615 SF                                                                                                                      1,322 SF

                                                                                                                               13                                                                      2,988 SF                                                                                                      6 ST                                                                                         3,761 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                   DN                                                                                                                                 1,139 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,515 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   B121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1,139 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G32




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2,360 SF                                                                                                                                                                          LEVEL 1 = 124 SPACES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1,139 SF

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OVER HEAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1,502 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DOOR, LEVEL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LS
                                                                                                                                      36                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 2 = 99 ASSIGNED STALLS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1,563 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G31




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ROD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TALL                                                                                        LEVEL 2 PRIVATE GARAGES = 16 GARAGES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,502 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RAMP UP TO P2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AMY VIEW LANE
                                                                                                                        205
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ALLS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     X 2 CARS = 32 SPACES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,139 SF

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6 ST


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      11
                                                                                                                      SPACES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G29
                                                                                                                                                  33                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,139 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CHANIN VISTA

                                                                                                                                                                            17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11,500 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  255 TOTAL PARKING SPACES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,568 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2 LEVELS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4 STALLS



                                                                                                                 29                                                                                                                                                                               C110




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10,000 SF

                                                                                                                                                                                A100
                                                                                                                                                                                4,800 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RAMP DN TO P0
                                                                                                                                                                     A1                                                                                            12                                                     9
                                                                                                                                                                   1,2  1                                                                6                                                                                                                                                          3                      15       15              16                                                 16               4




                                                                                                                                                                      00    0
                                                                                                                                                                           SF                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  F150




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9,800 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       89 SPACES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DN
                                                                                                                                                                                                            04




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GENERATOR                                                                                                                                                        UP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9
                                                                                                                                                                                                               SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                        C1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DN
                                                                                                                                                                                                             05




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2 STALLS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G
                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                            3,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,300 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D60                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 F120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8                                                                                                                                                                   D90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S      F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E170
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5,116 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,590 SF                                4,140 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E160
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             33




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2,340 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E180
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5,032 SF       4,077 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3,454 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X




                                                                                                                                110 STALLS ON RODEO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12 STALLS ON RIVERWALK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    17 STALLS ON CHANIN                                                                                                                                                 19 STALLS ON AMY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HIGHLAND DRIVE                                                            12 STALLS ON DOWNTON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HOLLADAY HILLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MASTER PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HOLLADAY, UT
P:\KMW Development (Cottonwood Mall) -1725\00 - Master Planning\Holiday Hills Master Plan.dwg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BLOCK K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 300,062 SQFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6.89 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OHW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                         P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                        E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OHW



                                                                                                                                                      NC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS
                                                                                                                                                  FE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OHW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OH                                                                                                                         W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS                                                                               W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G                                                                          G                                                          G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W                                                                                              S                                                            W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GASS
                                                                                                                                                                   OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W                                             W                                                                             W                                     W                                                                 W                                                           W                                                           W                                        W                                            W                                 W                                     W                                                                            W                                                                      W                                         W                                                                                    W                                                                              W                                                          G                                                                                                                                                       ORY                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SUNSET DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LAN             SS G                                                                                                           W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AS
                                                        G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OH
                                                      IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                    NC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS                                                                                                           W-L
                                               FE




                                                                                                                           WR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                 K
                                               IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L
                                                                                                                          RP
                                            NL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS
                                         AI




                                                                                                                      PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P
                                       CH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                 W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OH
                                                                                                              OH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD                                            SD                                                                                 SD                                    SD                                                                                                               SD                                                               SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD                                                                        SD                                            SD                                                                                 SD                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS                                       GAS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                       WR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P                                                P                                               P                                                       P                                        P                                                            P                                                            P                                                              P                                       P                                             P                                   P                                  P                                                                     P                                                                       P                                          P                                                                                  P                                                             P
                                                                                                     RP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OH
                                                                                                   PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DR W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMM                                                             SS
                                                                                  OH
                                                                                     W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IVE
                OH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COMM
                  W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARCEL A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COMM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OFESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OH
                                                                                      WR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IRIRRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13,980 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PP
                                                                                    RP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P
                                                                                  PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I                                                                                                                                                              DUMPSTER ENCLOSURE (TO BE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD                                                                              SD                                                                    SD                                                                                                G                                                             G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.32 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12/15/25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L I CENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W                                                                                   W                                                           W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W                                       SD                                                                                                                        CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 3)
                       PW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   F                                                                                    F                                                              F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             No. 280090
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ET
                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CONCRETE RETAINING WALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VERTI-BLOCK RETAINING WALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VERTI-BLOCK RETAINING WALL
                                                                   R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THEODORE J.
                      FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                 PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 2A)                                                                                                                                                                                                              (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N
                                                                   TR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DIDAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BLOCK L PUD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OHW
                 GA                                                PW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TR
                   S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D
                                                                 PW R                                                                                                                                                                                                   S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 1                                                                                                                                               AH
                                                                   R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF UT
                                                             FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          23,843 SQFT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                            GA                                             PPW
                                                                                                                                                                                       G
                                              S                                               WR
                                                                                               R
                                                                                         PW
                                                                                            R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VERTI-BLOCK RETAINING WALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.54 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 1)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                               PWR                                                                               S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G
                                                                                                   FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                         GA
                                                                              S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                F
                                                                                                                                     PWR                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                    PP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EL
                                                                                                                 PW
                                                                                                                                                                                    IRIRRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                   WR
                                                                                                                                                                    R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                  PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EL
                                                                                                    GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR
                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          58,277 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P
                                                                                                                               CM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                     GA




                                                                                                                                       PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                            R              SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.34 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PW
                                                                                                                                                      FO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                  WR
                                                                                                                               GA




                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                PPW




                                                                                                                                                                  PW
                                                                                                                                       S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                G
                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 3                                                                                                                                                                            PARKING STRUCTURE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LIFE TIME                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 6
                                                                                                                                                           W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW
                                                                                                                                            PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS
                                                                                                                                                                  CM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                       TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 3: 4388.58                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FFE 4374.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        58,277 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              174,585 SQFT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G
                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                       GAS




                                                                                                                                           FO
                                                                                                                                                                      RR
                                                                                                                                                                    PW
                                                                                                                                                                   PW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEVEL 2: 4377.83                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.34 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.01 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RR
                                                                                                                                        RR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 1: 4366.50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PPWW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                       PW
                                                                                                                                      PW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW
                                                                                                                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PARKING STALLS: 345                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LIFE TIME
                                                                                                                                                                                              TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S                                                                                                                                                                                      PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                            PFWOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (CONSTRUCTED WITH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IRIRRP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PHASE 2 PARKING LOT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LIFE TIME PHASE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                    SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW
                                                                                                                                                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (CONSTRUCTED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OM
                                                                                                                                                                           W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WITH TEMP 2 PHASE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AS
                                                                                                                                                           CHA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        67,010 SQFT
                                                                                                                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD                                                                                                                                                                                                     TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW W-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.54 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PHASE 2B PARKING STRUCTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BLOCK L PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (CONSTRUCTED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TR
                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                 NNI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                             PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L
                                                                                                                                                            GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MM
                                                                                                                                                                                         FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WITH PHASE 2B)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  195,972 SQFT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PHASE 1 PARKING LOT
                                                                                                                                                                                 W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R L
                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW W-
                                                                                                                                                           SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RR                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                   N VI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.50 ACRES W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PPWW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PPWW                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WITH TEMP 1 PHASE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NE 1/4 & SE 1/4 OF SEC. 9 & NW 1/4 & SW 1/4 OF SEC. 10, T2S, R1W, SLB&M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GA
                                                                                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHEET C2.11                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET C2.12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MM
                                                                                                                                                                       STA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CO
                                                                                                                                                                       GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW W-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EEMCB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                   FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PHASE 2C - RETAIL PADS 3, 4 & 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VERTI-BLOCK RETAINING WALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MM
                                                                                                                                                                                    SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HOLLADAY HILLS - BLOCK H-I-J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 1)                                                                                                                           SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                              GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4835 SOUTH HIGHLAND DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      c




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                               WR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONTRACTOR TO COORDINATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONCRETE DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                         W-L P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ASPHALT DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWS
                                                                                                                                                                                    SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WITH SALT LAKE COUNTY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD                                                                         SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                    SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SURVEYOR PRIOR TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W                                          W                                        W                                                                                                                                                             WITH PHASE 2B)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONCRETE DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WITH PHASE 2B)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PW
                                          BLOCK B SUBD.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOW                                              LOW                                 LOW                                     LOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S                                                          CONSTRUCTION TO DOCUMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (CONSTRUCTED WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G                                                   G                                           G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AND/OR RELOCATE EXISTING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P                                                                                                                                                           c LIFE TIME PHASE)                        c




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          36
                                     SD
                                                                                  -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      [4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P                                                                           P                                        P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ///////////////////////////////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PPWW
                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SECTION CORNER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ///////////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HOLLADAY CITY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 [ 4W
                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PW W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -L
                                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    37                                                                                                              LOW                           SD                       LOW                                                               LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS                                                                                                     S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                        SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     //////////////////////////////////////////////                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LO      S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               //////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 //////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RGA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          // /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G
                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                [ 437
                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ///////////////////////////////////////////                                                                                                                                                                         ////////////////////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      / /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          / / / / / / / / / / / / //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 // /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FUTURE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     //////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          14,680 SQFT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WITH PHASE 2B)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ASPHALT DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.34 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   // /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 2                                                           RETAIL PAD 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RETAIL PAD 3                                                                       LOT 5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            // /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ///////////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               // /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                75,600 SQFT                                                                      FFE: 4366.25                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FFE: 4367.08                                                          42,833 SQFT



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RETAIL PAD 4                                                                                                                                                                                        RETAIL PAD 5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          / /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.74 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.98 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               [ 43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PHASE 3 RETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          // /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FFE: 4369.50                                                                                                                                                                                         FFE: 4371.33




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     71 ]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (TO BE CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /      /                                                         G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /// /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WITH PHASE 3)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PHASE 2C RETAIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PHASE 2C RETAIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LcO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FUTURE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       [4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    37




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RETAIL PAD 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           [4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ////////////////////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W IG IGIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FFE: 4364.50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           [ 4369




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          [ 4368
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               [ 4367 ]                                       [ 4367 ]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       [ 43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR          [ 4367 ] PWR                       PWR                       PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            [ 4369
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR                 PWR                     PWR                          PWR                                               PWR                                   PWR                                        PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           [4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /// /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ]                  [ 4369 ]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IG IG                            PWR                                PWR                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          71 ]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR                                  PWR                                                 PWR                                                                                                                                                        PWR                                                                                         PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PHASE 3 RETAIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOWW-L                                   LOW                                        LOW                               LOW                             LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWPW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (TO BE CONSTRUCTED                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L                   W-L                                                           W-L                                                        W-L                                       W-L                                           W-L                      W-L                         W-L                     W-L                 W-L                   W-L                        W-L                                                  W-L                                                               W-L                          W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W IG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOW                                                              LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      // /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WITH PHASE 3)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COMM                          COMM                   COMM                   COMM                   COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COMM                               COMM                     COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L                                                                                       COMM                                                                                                                                                     FO                            PWR                     PWR                          PWR                 PWR                  PWR                  PWR                    PWR                             COMM                    PWR                                   PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RODEO WAY DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR                     PWR                          PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FO                                                                   FOPWR                  PWR                  PWR                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              / /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SSMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FO                                                              FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS                                                                                                                                                                                       SS                     SS                    SS                   SS                          SS                SS                   SS                 SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    / /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWR


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PFW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        // /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W-L                   PW COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         // /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      // /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS                       GAS                                         GAS                             GAS                                    GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CHA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W-L                           PWOMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD                    SD                                          SD                             SD                                 SD                                                          SD                     SD                     SD                        SD                   SD                SD                 SD                   SD                    SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS                                                                     GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROJECT BENCHMARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             // /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BLOCK G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GA                   SD                                                                   EB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      //          /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R              W-L                  R                                                                 SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PRW                                                      PPW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR                                                                                                                                                                              GAS                     GAS                    GAS                     GAS                         GAS               GAS                  GAS                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PW                                   PW M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR                                                                                                                                        PW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NNI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       / /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  145,709 SQFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR                     PWR                       PWR                        PWR                 PWR                   PWR                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MM       -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /// /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 // /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.35 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR                                                                                                                                                                                       SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            M         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CO M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N VI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P WR                                       PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EBEB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EBEB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR                                                MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CO                                                                       PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W                                          GAS         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHEET C2.11                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET C2.12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CO FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  STA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GASSS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PIGW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IG IG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IG IG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COM                                             SD                           PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PPW                                                                       W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD                         PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L                                            COMSM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CO
                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TF
                                                                                  ES EY NT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                              IN ILL OPM ES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M            PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COM
                                                                                US TH E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                            OR ST L IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                          G IF VE L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GASSTUB
                                                                        IN N DE RM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GA                          SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EL
                                                                     AM OW ST TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DOWNTOWN LANE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR
                                                                   RE KN PA S S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FIB
                                                                     UN OM IOU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IG IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O
                                                                       FR EV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L
                                                                          PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M                                                                                                            PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COM
                                               SD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AMY VIEW LANE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW                                                                   CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR                                  COM                                                            GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS                                 -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                              PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R




                                                                                                                                                                                                             COM                                                             GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW
           SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                             PW R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L




                                                                                                                                                                            W-L                                                                    PWPWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PW R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR
                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                             COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      M
                                                                                                                                                                              PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS                 CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS




                                                                                                                                            W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS




                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS                                                    PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L




                                                                                                                                               M
                                                                                                                                           COM R                                 SS                                                                                       PW R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PW                                  SD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .
                                                                                                               W-L                            PW                                                                                                                            R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BLOCK D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BLOCK E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BLOCK F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PPW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                   PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NT
                                                                                                                M                                     SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FO




                                                                                                             COM PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L




                                                                                  W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                158,423 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     168,390 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             198,133 SQFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                               PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR
                                                                                                                                                       GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S




                                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S




                                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS




                                                                        COM PWR                                                                                                            PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.64 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.86 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.54 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                              W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS




                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S                                 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GA
                                                                                           SS                             GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW
                                     COM
                                        M           PWR                                                                                                     PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                   TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR
            W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                      SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M             -L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS
                                                             SS                            GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD




                PWR                                                                                                            PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS
       M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G                  SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW
   C OM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR
                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                        GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WORMM




                                                                                              PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L




                       GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                 PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GGAA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RR
                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                              GENERAL NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REVISIONS
SITE GRADING SHALL BE PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS AND THE                                                                                                                                                                               ALL ELEVATIONS SHOWN AT TOP AND BOTTOM OF WALL(S), IF ANY, ARE ELEVATIONS AT FINISH GRADE,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NO
RECOMMENDATIONS SET FORTH IN THE SOILS REPORT (IF AVAILABLE). THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE                                                                                                                                                                                   UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
RESPONSIBLE FOR REMOVING AND REPLACING ALL SOFT, YIELDING OR UNSUITABLE MATERIALS AND
REPLACING WITH SUITABLE MATERIALS AS SPECIFIED IN THE SOILS REPORT. ALL EXCAVATED OR FILLED
AREAS SHALL BE COMPACTED TO 95% OF MODIFIED PROCTOR MAXIMUM DENSITY PER ASTM TEST D-1557
EXCEPT UNDER BUILDING FOUNDATION WHERE IT SHALL BE 98% MIN. OF MAXIMUM DENSITY. MOISTURE
CONTENT AT TIME OF PLACEMENT SHALL NOT EXCEED 2% ABOVE NOR 3% BELOW OPTIMUM. CONTRACTOR
SHALL SUBMIT A COMPACTION REPORT PREPARED BY A QUALIFIED REGISTERED SOILS ENGINEER,
VERIFYING THAT ALL FILLED AREAS AND SUBGRADE AREAS WITHIN THE BUILDING PAD AREA AND AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SCALE: 1" = 40'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
TO BE PAVED, HAVE BEEN COMPACTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE PLANS & SPECS AND THE
RECOMMENDATIONS SET FORTH IN THE SOILS REPORT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
THE CONTRACTOR IS TO USE BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES FOR PROVIDING EROSION CONTROL FOR
CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT. SPECIFIC DETAILS SHOWN ON SHEET C2.30 SHALL BE USED IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0                20'                       40'                                           80'                                 120'
COMBINATION WITH OTHER ACCEPTED LOCAL PRACTICES.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
EXISTING UNDERGROUND UTILITIES AND IMPROVEMENTS ARE SHOWN IN THEIR APPROXIMATE LOCATIONS
BASED UPON RECORD INFORMATION AVAILABLE AT THE TIME OF PREPARATION OF PLANS. LOCATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT BENCHMARK                                                                                                                                     PROJECT NO: 23301.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE LOCATED AT THE INTERSECTION OF
MAY NOT HAVE BEEN VERIFIED IN THE FIELD AND NO GUARANTEE IS MADE AS TO ACCURACY OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RODEO WAY DRIVE AND AMY VIEW LANE.                                                                                                                                   DESIGNED BY: JHF
COMPLETENESS OF THE INFORMATION SHOWN. IT SHALL BE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BENCHMARK ELEVATION: 4365.89'
DETERMINE THE EXISTENCE AND LOCATION OF THOSE UTILITIES SHOWN ON THESE PLANS OR INDICATED
IN THE FIELD BY LOCATING SERVICES. ANY ADDITIONAL COSTS INCURRED AS A RESULT OF CONTRACTOR'S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CHECKED BY: TJD
FAILURE TO VERIFY LOCATIONS OF EXISTING UTILITIES PRIOR TO BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION IN THEIR
VICINITY SHALL BE BORNE BY THE CONTRACTOR AND ASSUMED INCLUDED IN THE CONTRACT.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DATE:                     DEC 10, 2025
CONTRACTOR TO FIELD VERIFY BOTH THE VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL LOCATION OF ALL EXISTING
UTILITIES PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTING ANY NEW UTILITY LINE OR STRUCTURE. CONTRACTOR TO REPORT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NOTICE!
ANY DESIGN DISCREPANCIES IN HORIZONTAL OR VERTICAL LOCATIONS TO ENGINEER. NO ADDITIONAL
COMPENSATION SHALL BE PAID TO THE CONTRACTOR FOR DAMAGE AND/OR REPAIR TO THESE FACILITIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SCOPE LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OVERALL
CAUSED BY HIS WORK FORCE, OR FOR ANY WORK HAVING TO BE DONE DUE TO FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH
THESE REQUIREMENTS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RESPONSIBLE FOR THE LOCATION,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROTECTION, AND RESTORATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GRADING &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DRAINAGE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AREA WITHIN LIMIT OF WORK LINE PART OF
CONTRACTOR MUST START AT LOW END OF ALL NEW GRAVITY UTILITY LINES AND WORK UPSTREAM. ALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 THIS PERMIT. AREA OUTSIDE OF LIMIT OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OF ALL BURIED OR ABOVE
PROPOSED CONNECTIONS TO EXISTING UTILITY LINES OR STRUCTURES ARE TO BE FIELD VERIFIED FOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOW                                                     WORK LINE EXCLUDED FROM THIS PERMIT.                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GROUND UTILITIES, SHOWN OR



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C2.00
BOTH VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL LOCATION, PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTING ANY NEW UTILITY LINE OR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NOT SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
STRUCTURE. NO ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION SHALL BE PAID TO THE CONTRACTOR FOR ANY WORK
HAVING TO BE DONE DUE TO FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THESE REQUIREMENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD                                                                                                                                          2.10%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.00%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             66.28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       67,010 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          58,277 SQFT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.54 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.34 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EX T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      65.4 A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.80%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PHASE 1 PARKING LOT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (CONSTRUCTED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  63                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       43                                                                                                                             4.15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WITH TEMP 1 PHASE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SCALE: 1" = 10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.46%                                                                                                                                                      2.25%                                                                                                                         0.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0            5'     10'                     20'             30'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EX T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       63.9 A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           65.37




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          65.89




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             65.89
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S                                                          S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD                                                                                                                     63.9 A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EX                       S                                  SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GENERAL NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  62.7 A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6
 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    %                    S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SITE GRADING SHALL BE PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS AND THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.36                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RECOMMENDATIONS SET FORTH IN THE SOILS REPORT (IF AVAILABLE). THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EX T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       62.9 A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ASPHALT DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RESPONSIBLE FOR REMOVING AND REPLACING ALL SOFT, YIELDING OR UNSUITABLE MATERIALS AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.33%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.33%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.68%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REPLACING WITH SUITABLE MATERIALS AS SPECIFIED IN THE SOILS REPORT. ALL EXCAVATED OR FILLED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4366
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WITH PHASE 2B)                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AREAS SHALL BE COMPACTED TO 95% OF MODIFIED PROCTOR MAXIMUM DENSITY PER ASTM TEST D-1557
       PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD
          R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXCEPT UNDER BUILDING FOUNDATION WHERE IT SHALL BE 98% MIN. OF MAXIMUM DENSITY. MOISTURE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EX T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        62.8 A
       PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.16                                                                                                                               W                                                             W                                                                                           W                                                                                                                                     W                                          W                                                    W                                            W                                            W                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               %                                                                                                                                                                                                               %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONTENT AT TIME OF PLACEMENT SHALL NOT EXCEED 2% ABOVE NOR 3% BELOW OPTIMUM. CONTRACTOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHALL SUBMIT A COMPACTION REPORT PREPARED BY A QUALIFIED REGISTERED SOILS ENGINEER,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VERIFYING THAT ALL FILLED AREAS AND SUBGRADE AREAS WITHIN THE BUILDING PAD AREA AND AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.59                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TO BE PAVED, HAVE BEEN COMPACTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE PLANS & SPECS AND THE
                   PWR
                      R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RECOMMENDATIONS SET FORTH IN THE SOILS REPORT.
                   PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     64.67 TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     65.21 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX GRATE: 4364.15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              64.94 TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              65.27 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G                                                  G                                                             G                                                        G                                                                                                                                               G                                           G                                                 G                                         G AND GUTTER                                      G                                             G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD                                                                                              NEW 6" IE: 4361.63                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 THE CONTRACTOR IS TO USE BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES FOR PROVIDING EROSION CONTROL FOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.91
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EX 18" IE IN: 4360.63 (SE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.50%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.50%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT. SPECIFIC DETAILS SHOWN ON SHEET C2.30 SHALL BE USED IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD                                                                                                                                                                                                           S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EX 18" IE OUT: 4360.63 (N)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WITH PHASE 2B)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             62.4 A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.13%                                          LOW                                                  LOW                                                   LOW                                                                                         LOW                                                   LOW                                                                                               LOW                                            LOW                                             LOW                                      LOW                                         LOW                                       LOW                                                                  COMBINATION WITH OTHER ACCEPTED LOCAL PRACTICES.
                              PWR
                                 R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD                                                       SD                                                                                                      SD                                              SD                                                 SD                                           SD                                          SD                                           SD
                              PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3                                                                                                                           SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING UNDERGROUND UTILITIES AND IMPROVEMENTS ARE SHOWN IN THEIR APPROXIMATE LOCATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               64.2 TOA
                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BASED UPON RECORD INFORMATION AVAILABLE AT THE TIME OF PREPARATION OF PLANS. LOCATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                63.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G 12.81%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15.48%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.89%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        63.1 A                                                                                                                                                                   LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3 TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                66.13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MAY NOT HAVE BEEN VERIFIED IN THE FIELD AND NO GUARANTEE IS MADE AS TO ACCURACY OR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             65.81
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                65.64
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9
                                           SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E X T                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COMPLETENESS OF THE INFORMATION SHOWN. IT SHALL BE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OFESS IONAL
                                         PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                            R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DETERMINE THE EXISTENCE AND LOCATION OF THOSE UTILITIES SHOWN ON THESE PLANS OR INDICATED
                                         PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CURB AND GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PR
         SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G
                                                                                          SD            S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.42%                                                     3.56%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.00%                                                                                                     IN THE FIELD BY LOCATING SERVICES. ANY ADDITIONAL COSTS INCURRED AS A RESULT OF CONTRACTOR'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12/15/25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.00%
                                                                                                                                          SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PHASE 3 CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.40%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FAILURE TO VERIFY LOCATIONS OF EXISTING UTILITIES PRIOR TO BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION IN THEIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L I CENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOC5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WITH PHASE 2B)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           65.73




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             66.08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           66.25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOC
                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   No. 280090




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.56%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.00%                                                                                                     VICINITY SHALL BE BORNE BY THE CONTRACTOR AND ASSUMED INCLUDED IN THE CONTRACT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                               SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               INEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              THEODORE J.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            64.3                                                                                               3.61%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
                                                 PWR




                              SD
                                                   R




                                                                                                                                                                                        S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6 17.4 LF @ 1.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   //////////////////////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONTRACTOR TO FIELD VERIFY BOTH THE VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL LOCATION OF ALL EXISTING
                                                 PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              %                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            66.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UTILITIES PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTING ANY NEW UTILITY LINE OR STRUCTURE. CONTRACTOR TO REPORT                                   DIDAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0                                                                                         8"x6" TEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          65.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EX T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            63.3 A
             FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ANY DESIGN DISCREPANCIES IN HORIZONTAL OR VERTICAL LOCATIONS TO ENGINEER. NO ADDITIONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOC                                               T C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O                                         IE: 4361.80




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    64.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4364
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ///                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COMPENSATION SHALL BE PAID TO THE CONTRACTOR FOR DAMAGE AND/OR REPAIR TO THESE FACILITIES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IE: 4361.94 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OF UT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.54




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             63.0 A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CAUSED BY HIS WORK FORCE, OR FOR ANY WORK HAVING TO BE DONE DUE TO FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.52
                                                         PWR
                                                           R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5                                                                           2.8 LF @ 1.00% 5
                                                         PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THESE REQUIREMENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        66.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ASPHALT DRIVE                                                                  G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (CONSTRUCTED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      67
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ///                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IE: 4361.91 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONTRACTOR MUST START AT LOW END OF ALL NEW GRAVITY UTILITY LINES AND WORK UPSTREAM. ALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WITH PHASE 2B)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    64.5                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          66.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.0 LF @ 1.00% 5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROPOSED CONNECTIONS TO EXISTING UTILITY LINES OR STRUCTURES ARE TO BE FIELD VERIFIED FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FG                                                 64.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOA
                            FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.35                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           T C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BOTH VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL LOCATION, PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTING ANY NEW UTILITY LINE OR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8.0 LF @ 1.00% 6
                                                                 PWR
                                                                   R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.00
                                                                 PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      63.8 TOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STRUCTURE. NO ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION SHALL BE PAID TO THE CONTRACTOR FOR ANY WORK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       63.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOW                                                                                                                           %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 64.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HAVING TO BE DONE DUE TO FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THESE REQUIREMENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7 TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.39                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6 14.1 LF @ 1.00%
  W-L PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  22.5° ELBOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.60                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ALL ELEVATIONS SHOWN AT TOP AND BOTTOM OF WALL(S), IF ANY, ARE ELEVATIONS AT FINISH GRADE,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IE: 4361.88
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
                                                                          PWR
                                                                            R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                                          PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ///
                                         FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /// /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     // ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                63.3 A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KEYED NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ///
             W-L PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  64.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    45° ELBOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /                                                        IE: 4361.03




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                %                                                                                                                                                                            PHASE 7 CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROVIDE, INSTALL AND/OR CONSTRUCT THE FOLLOWING PER THE SPECIFICATIONS GIVEN OR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /// /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.56
                                                                                          PWR
                                                                                          PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REFERENCED AND THE DETAILS NOTED AND AS SHOWN ON THE CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CURB AND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ///                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GRATE: 4365.93 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            64.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (CONSTRUCTED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IE: 4362.07




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1    GRADE SITE TO ELEVATIONS AND CONTOURS SHOWN ON PLAN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.80




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6 4.0 LF @ 1.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WITH PHASE 2B)
                                                      FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4
                        R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /
                        W-L PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 64.1 TOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6.25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  63.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           / 6/ T/O/C/ / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CORE-CONNECT NEW STORM DRAIN LINE TO EXISTING STORM DRAIN STRUCTURE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3 TB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9
                                                                                                 PWR
                                                                                                    R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ///
                                                                                                 PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RETAIL PAD 2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3    STORM DRAIN CLEANOUT, PER APWA PLAN NO. 431.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOW                                                                                                              0.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ///



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         66.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FFE: 4366.25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /
                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  21.0 LF @ 1.00% 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4363




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            //
                                                                                                                                                                                                               63.8 EX TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     % G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8" HDPE INLINE DRAIN BASIN WITH HEAVY DUTY, PEDESTRIAN SAFE GRATE. SEE DETAIL 'A3', SHEET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                63.2
                                  W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.51                                                                                                                                                                                   0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C5.01.
                                                               FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3 TB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ///
                                                                                                         PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.00                                                                                                                   GATE: 4365.75 4
                                                                                                            R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                         PW




                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5.72
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IE: 4362.42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ///                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PHASE 3 RETAIL                                                                                                                      5    6" DIAMETER HDPE STORM DRAIN LINE. SEE APWA PLANS NO. 381 & 382 FOR TRENCHING DETAIL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        64.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A




                                                                                                                                                                                                        %
                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.95 LO
                                             PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6    8" DIAMETER HDPE STORM DRAIN LINE. SEE APWA PLANS NO. 381 & 382 FOR TRENCHING DETAIL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NE 1/4 & SE 1/4 OF SEC. 9 & NW 1/4 & SW 1/4 OF SEC. 10, T2S, R1W, SLB&M
                                                                                                 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /
                                           W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.00
                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ///                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                      R




                                                                                                                                                      6                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    64.4




                                                                                                                                   GA6S3.1                                                                                           63.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD
                                                                                                                    PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7    STUB, CAP AND MARK STORM DRAIN LINE, FOR FUTURE CONNECTION.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8"x8" TEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 %




                                                                                                                                      WC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.46%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T C                             %
                                                                                                                                   L O TO                                                                                               O                         4.57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                               FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IE: 4362.28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       %
                                                                                                GA S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ///
                                                                                                                                                                                        4.95%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14.0 LF @ 1.00% 6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       //                           ///
                                                   PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4.89
                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ///
                                                 W-L




                                                                                                                                                                      63.38                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6 6.0 LF @ 1.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HOLLADAY HILLS - BLOCK H-I-J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GATE: 4365.93 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     %
                                                                                                                                  PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.66%




                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ///
                                                                                                                                                                       TO C
                                                                                                                                    R




                                  GA S
                                                                               LO
                                                                                                                                  PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PHASE 3 - RETAIL PADS 1 & 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IE: 4362.32
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.66%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    63.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /
                                                                                                                                                                            W-L
                                                                                                                                                      W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TO C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ///
                                                           PWR
  SS




                                                                                                                                                                                   63.42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4835 SOUTH HIGHLAND DRIVE
                                                                                               FO




                                                                                                                             W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.54%




                                                                                                                                                                      W-L
                                                         W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        //
                                                                                                                                                                                    T OC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ///




                                                                                          W-L                                       2.1%
                                                                                                                                           PWR
                                                                                                                                             R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         64.5
                                                                                                                                           PW
                                                                                    W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOC
                                                                         W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           63.43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SEE SHEET C2.12 FOR CONTINUATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            T OC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          64.50
                                                                                          LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ///
             SS




                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PHASE 7 CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ///
                                                                      W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MATCH LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     27.0 LF @ 1.00% 6
                                                                                                                                                                  PWR
                                                                                                                                                                     R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                         FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ///
                                                                                                                                                                  PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4.54%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HOLLADAY CITY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.54%




                                                                                                                                                                                            13.6%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ///




                                                                                                                                        LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     // /
                                                                                                                                          W
                        SS
 GAS




                                                                       PWR
                                                                                W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             //
                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                      R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                    PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      64.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                         FO
                                  SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TO C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4365                                                          %
             GAS




                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                21.0%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /
                                                                                               W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   64.36                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RETAIL PAD 1
                                                                                                                                                                            LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               //
                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           66.25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TO C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FFE: 4364.50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4 GRATE: 4365.93                                                                                                                                                 / 6/6 /OC/ / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / /
                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IE: 4362.61




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.00%
                       GAS




                                                                                               PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ///
                                                                                                       W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         66.1
                                                                                                                                         FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ///
  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           66.1           T C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      64.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PHASE 3 RETAIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PHASE 3 CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T C
                                                 SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.43%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         O
                                                                                                             EXISTING CURB                                                                                                                                                64.50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        //
                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOW
                                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.54
                                                                                                             AND GUTTER                                                                                                                                                    T OC
                                                                                                       PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ///
                                                                                                                  W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  22.2%                                                                                                                                                                                                      436
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4
             SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.82
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    64.36




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /
                                                                                                                                                                       FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   66.05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T OC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /// ///
                                                         SS




                                                                                          CHA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /
                                           GAS




                                                                                                              PWR


                                                                                                                              W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.87%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWR
                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            30.6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             64.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             65.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR                       PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                             NNI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                O                                                      %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         64.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             65.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             65.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW
                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0W0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L
                                                                                                N VI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                                                                                                            FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      //
                                                   GAS




                                                                                                                         PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.13
                                                                                                                                        W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W-L
                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.91




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWPPRW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.84




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4                         65.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           %
                                                                                                       STA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.86




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.92
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWR
                                                                       SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      65.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ///                        %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           65.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWWRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /                                   /                                            TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        //                              //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P
                                                                                                                                                          W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  32.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ///                             ///
                                                           GAS




                                                                                                                                          W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                           SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW
                                                                                                                                                          W-L




                                                                                                              W-L                                                                                                               W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W- L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXISTING CURB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWWRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PW
                                                                                                                                                                W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W-L                                                                                                           COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                               FO




                                                                               W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR                                                                                                  AND GUTTER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     32.4
                                                                                                                                                W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R




                                                                                                                             W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                                                W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW




                                                W-L                                                                                                                                                                                  W- L
                                                                                    SS




                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8                                                                                                                                                                     PWWRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                65.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             %                                                                                                                                                                                W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             //
                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /
                                                                                          W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     //                                                                                                                                                                                               1.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ///
              W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ///                                                                                                                                             T C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                      W- L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         O                                                                                                                                                         PWR                                                                                                                                                                   M
                                                        W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       16.6%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              //        /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                    W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWWRR
                                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ///
                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L                                                                        R
                                                                    GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.00
                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PW
                                                                                                                                                                              W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ///




                            W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            65.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOW
       W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWWRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W-L                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .78%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS
                                                                                               SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COMMON GRADING ABBREVIATIONS:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              64.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWWRR                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           //                              //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P                                                                                                                                                                                              PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  32.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ///
                                                           SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SEE SHEET C0.01 FOR ADDITIONAL ABBREVIATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /
                                                                               GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /                                                                                                                                                    .78%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.00
                                                                                                                                                                      PWR



                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ///                                                                                                                                                                                      4                                                                                                        PWWRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   436                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COM                                                                  SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.26%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        P                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      - BFE                  BASEMENT FLOOR ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.26%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         64.5
                                                                                                       SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PPWWRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /// //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS                                                                                     GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                //                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      - BW                   FINISH GRADE AT BOTTOM OF WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         64.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW                               COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CM




                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /                                                                                                          43                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              - EX or EXIST          EXISTING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               //                               //                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                    SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWWRR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ///                              ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PHASE 3 CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           %                                                                                                                                          P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          - EOA                  EDGE OF ASPHALT
                                                                                           GAS




                                                                                                                                                 SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR



                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COM
                                                                                                                                                                                  FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      - EOC                  EDGE OF CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8                                                                                                                                                                            PWWRR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          //                                                                          64.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.67




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                              SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD                                                                       - FFE                  FINISH FLOOR ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COM
                                                                                                             FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       %                                                                 PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          - FG                   FINISH GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWWRR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   //                            %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      - FL                   FLOW LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       //
                                                                               SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ///




                                                              FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      64.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COM                                                                                                      SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              - GB                   GRADE BREAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /
                                                                                                     GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R PWWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PW        P                                                                       W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - HP                   HIGH POINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PHASE 3 CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PW
                                                                                                                         SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M                                                                                                                    SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD                                                                                                                                                             - LP                   LOW POINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R PPWWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                64.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  - NG                   NATURAL GROUND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.67




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.00
                                                                                          SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     // ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD                                                                                                                                                                                     - SDCB                 STORM DRAIN CATCH BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  //                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWWRR                                                                         W-L                                                                                                                                                                       COM                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  - SDCO                 STORM DRAIN CLEANOUT BOX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               22.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     //
                                                                                                             GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P
                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           64.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8                                                                                                                                                        WR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R PPWR                                            LOW                               W-L                                                                                                                                    M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD                                                                                                         PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      - SDDB                 STORM DRAIN DRAIN BASIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COM
                                                                                                                                    SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 - SDMH                 STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PW                                                                                                                                          SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            //                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ///
                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWWRR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              - TBC                  TOP BACK OF CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8.8%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ///
                                                                                                 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   - TOA                  TOP OF ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ///
                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWWRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   64.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS                                                                                                                                                     PWR                                                                                                                                                              - TOC                  TOP OF CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L
                                                                                                                         GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COM                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      - TOG                  TOP OF GRATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4




                       SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PW

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWWRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR                                                                                                                                                                                         - TOW                  TOP OF WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               64.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             29.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R                          COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        //                                                                        .00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - TW                   FINISH GRADE AT TOP OF WALL
                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOC                                                                                                          ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWWRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               - WW                   WATERWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  64.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0 00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R                                  MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   64.5 0.                                                                                                          5.0 LF @ 1.00% 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ///
                                                                                                                                        GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWWRR                                                                W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR
                                                                                                                                                                      SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         64.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            62.81
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P                                  M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7 IE: 4359.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWWRR                                                                                                                                                                                                               COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R                                                                                                    GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         YD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.00%                      TOC
                                                                                                                    SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR                                                                                                                                                                                        R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               62.67                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWWRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW                        M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L                                                                                                                                COM                                                                                                                                                                                GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13.0 LF @ 1.00% 5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.9%                           TOC
                                                                                                                                                      GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3 IE: 4359.45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .17
                                                                                                                                                                                   SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TO .89




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWWRR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    64.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SCOPE LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M                                                            SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            %                                                                                                                               P                                                                                                                                                                                                               COM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.78
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          62




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         63.3
                                                                                                                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         62.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWWRR                                                         W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS                                                                                                                   GAS                                                  SD                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
BLOCK B SUBD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3                                                                                                                                                                     P                                                                                                                                                                                                          M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            436
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   35.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.78
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW PWWRR                                                                                                                                                                                PW                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0%
                                                                                                                                                                            GAS


                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS




                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS                                                SD                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AREA WITHIN LIMIT OF WORK LINE PART OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4.96%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    THIS PERMIT. AREA OUTSIDE OF LIMIT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WR                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R WR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD
                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXISTING CURB                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             25.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PW PPWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW                   WORK LINE EXCLUDED FROM THIS PERMIT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IG IG
                                                                                                                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                             SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC 5
                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AND GUTTER                                                                                                COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   62.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IG IG

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              %




                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3.23%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R                                                                                   SS                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING CURB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          63.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M




                                                                                                                                          SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IRR       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COM
                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WR                                                                                                                                                                                                                            M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AND GUTTER                                              P WR                                                          PW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COM                                             SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR                                                                                                                                                                                 2 PPWR                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L                                                                                               PW                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          62.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.94




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P WR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W-L               SDCB #31B                                                                            R                           COM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R                                                                                                                                                                                 PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.8%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW                                                                                                           PWWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR                                                                                                                                                  62.5                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EX GRATE: 4361.93
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS                                                                                                                                                  SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOC 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NEW 6" IE IN: 4359.32 (NE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROJECT BENCHMARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.00                                                                                                                                     W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L
                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                            %                R                                                        R                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWWR                                                                                                                       EX 12" IE OUT: 4358.82 (SW)                                                              CO                         SS                                                                                                                                                              SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROJECT NO: 23301.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE LOCATED AT THE INTERSECTION OF
                                                                                                                                  PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             62.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RODEO WAY DRIVE AND AMY VIEW LANE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOC 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DESIGNED BY: JHF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7.23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BENCHMARK ELEVATION: 4365.89'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L                                                                                                                                                                                         COM                                                                                                                            GAS                                                                                                                                                                             PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7.09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CHECKED BY: TJD
                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M                                                                                                                  GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOC 7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COM                                                                                                                          COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      62.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW                                                                                                 LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COMM                                     SS                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DATE:                     DEC 10, 2025
                                                                                                                   PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWWRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BLOCK D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOC 7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COM                                                                                                                                   SS                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            62.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        158,423 SQFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS                                                                                                                                                                               PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NOTICE!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COM                                                                                                                                        SS                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.64 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GRADING AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M                                                                                                                                SS                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                       PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWWRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C OM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS                                 SD                                                                                                                                       PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RESPONSIBLE FOR THE LOCATION,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAINAGE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C OM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROTECTION, AND RESTORATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD                                                                                                                                   PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W-L                                                                                              C OM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OF ALL BURIED OR ABOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWWRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W-L
                                                                                               PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GROUND UTILITIES, SHOWN OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS                                                                                                                                                                          SD                                                                                                                            PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L                                                                          M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C2.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NOT SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M




                                                                                                                                                                            W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                           0.00%                                                                                     0.00%                                                                 0.83%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    66.43
                                                                                                           LOT 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PARKING STRUCTURE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LIFE TIME                                                                                                             LOT 6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            H
                                                                                                                                                  66.28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  66.28
                                                                                                                                                  TOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LEVEL 3: 4388.58                                                                           PHASE 2B PARKING STRUCTURE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FFE 4374.00
                                                                                                          58,277 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               174,585 SQFT
                                             66.28
                                             TOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                66.38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LEVEL 2: 4377.83                                                                                  (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                          1.34 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 1: 4366.50                                                                                  WITH PHASE 2B)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           66.12                                                                                                                                                                                     4.01 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PARKING STALLS: 345




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    66.50 TOC 0.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.99%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              66.10 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    66.38 TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VERTI-BLOCK RETAINING WALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              66.10 TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                     %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1. 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          66.44                        66.44
                                             1.80%




                                                                                                                                                  1.80%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            66.47




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         67.59
                                                                                                                                                                                    9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                 1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           66.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 1)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOC                          TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          66.43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        66.31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    66.50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  66.50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    66.50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  66.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.72%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             66.45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOC                66.43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SCALE: 1" = 10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8.00%                         1.80%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.00%                                                                                    0.51%                                                                                                                           0.50%                                                                                      0.00%                                                     0.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CONCRETE SIDEWALK (CONSTRUCTED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.50%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.80%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.83%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.83%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.83%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.83%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.83%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.83%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.06%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONCRETE SIDEWALK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WITH LIFE TIME PHASE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 2B)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.96%
                                                                                           0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0            5'     10'                     20'             30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD                                 SD                                         SD                                              SD                                        SD                                                                                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.00%                                                                                                                       0.00%                                                                                                                        0.00%                                                                                                                                                                             5.00%




                                                                                                                                                  65.89
                                                                                                                                                  TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.79                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.51%                                                                                                                                                  0.50%                                                                                                                                 0.50%                                                                                                                                0.50%                                                                    4.10%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        65.87 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  66.14 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     66.78 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     66.89 TOC
                                             65.89




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        66.20 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  66.47 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     67.11 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     67.43 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            66.39 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                66.39 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        66.39 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        65.89 EX TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            66.39 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                66.39 TBC
                                             TOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   %                                                                                                                               0.82                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.92%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        65.89 FL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            66.03 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            66.03 TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            66.37 TBC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            66.37 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        65.89 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4.96%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GENERAL NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4368
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8%                                                                                                                          SITE GRADING SHALL BE PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS AND THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.03%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.59%
                                                                                                                                                                                                       0%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.58%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.82%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.03%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.63%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.53%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.30%                                                                                                                                   1.97%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.09%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONCRETE DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONCRETE DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.69%
                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (CONSTRUCTED WITH                                                                                                                                                                              RECOMMENDATIONS SET FORTH IN THE SOILS REPORT (IF AVAILABLE). THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE
                                                                                   ASPHALT DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RESPONSIBLE FOR REMOVING AND REPLACING ALL SOFT, YIELDING OR UNSUITABLE MATERIALS AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TABLE-TOP DRIVE (CONSTRUCTED SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WITH PHASE 2B)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LIFE TIME PHASE)
                                             1.53%




                                                                                                                                                  1.99%




                                                                                   (CONSTRUCTED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REPLACING WITH SUITABLE MATERIALS AS SPECIFIED IN THE SOILS REPORT. ALL EXCAVATED OR FILLED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.99%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.99%
                                                                                   WITH PHASE 2B)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.4                                                           WITH PHASE 2B)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        66.46 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            66.46 TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              437




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            67.00 TBC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        67.00 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4% G                                                                                                                                      G                                       0%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AREAS SHALL BE COMPACTED TO 95% OF MODIFIED PROCTOR MAXIMUM DENSITY PER ASTM TEST D-1557
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                66.65 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                66.65 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        67.00 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             67.09 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           67.42 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXCEPT UNDER BUILDING FOUNDATION WHERE IT SHALL BE 98% MIN. OF MAXIMUM DENSITY. MOISTURE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             67.63 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           67.75 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        66.50 FL
                                                              W                                             W                                                     W                                                 W                                                                W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONTENT AT TIME OF PLACEMENT SHALL NOT EXCEED 2% ABOVE NOR 3% BELOW OPTIMUM. CONTRACTOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.00%                                                                                                                                             SHALL SUBMIT A COMPACTION REPORT PREPARED BY A QUALIFIED REGISTERED SOILS ENGINEER,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .89




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.97%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.53%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VERIFYING THAT ALL FILLED AREAS AND SUBGRADE AREAS WITHIN THE BUILDING PAD AREA AND AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        66.54                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TO BE PAVED, HAVE BEEN COMPACTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE PLANS & SPECS AND THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          67.84
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOC                                                                                                                                                                                 %
                                             65.43 TOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD
                                             65.76 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RECOMMENDATIONS SET FORTH IN THE SOILS REPORT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            65.76 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        65.76 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            65.76 TBC
                                                                                                                                                   65.29 TOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                   65.62 TBC




                                                        G                                   G GUTTER                                                 G                                                       G                                                   G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                66.77
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        65.26 FL
                                                                                       CURB AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.61%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.31%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.31%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.31%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONCRETE SIDEWALK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.99%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     THE CONTRACTOR IS TO USE BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES FOR PROVIDING EROSION CONTROL FOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  66.61 TBC
                                                                                       (CONSTRUCTED                                                                                                                                          SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 2C)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 67.08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT. SPECIFIC DETAILS SHOWN ON SHEET C2.30 SHALL BE USED IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC
                                                                                         0.51%                                                                                                          0.66%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     66.61 TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.30%                                             0.00%                                                                              0.00%                                                                                                            0.00%                                                                                             0.00%
                                                                                       WITH  PHASE 2B)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G
                                                            LOW                                     LOW                                            LOW                                            SD     LOW                                              LOW 5.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW                                                                                                                                                                             1.13%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       67.08                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COMBINATION WITH OTHER ACCEPTED LOCAL PRACTICES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.94%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
                                                                    SD                                            SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.86%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             69.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6.13%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      68.32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  67.08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             67.08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             67.08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      67.08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXISTING UNDERGROUND UTILITIES AND IMPROVEMENTS ARE SHOWN IN THEIR APPROXIMATE LOCATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               66.38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BASED UPON RECORD INFORMATION AVAILABLE AT THE TIME OF PREPARATION OF PLANS. LOCATIONS
                         6.89%




                                                                                                                                                  9.50%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6.89%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6.66%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         66.13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAY NOT HAVE BEEN VERIFIED IN THE FIELD AND NO GUARANTEE IS MADE AS TO ACCURACY OR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          65.91
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COMPLETENESS OF THE INFORMATION SHOWN. IT SHALL BE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OFESS IONAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DETERMINE THE EXISTENCE AND LOCATION OF THOSE UTILITIES SHOWN ON THESE PLANS OR INDICATED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.86%                     1.92%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IN THE FIELD BY LOCATING SERVICES. ANY ADDITIONAL COSTS INCURRED AS A RESULT OF CONTRACTOR'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12/15/25
                         2.00%




                                                                                                                                                  2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.00%
                                                                                                     1                                                                                            PHASE 3 CONSTRUCTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FAILURE TO VERIFY LOCATIONS OF EXISTING UTILITIES PRIOR TO BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION IN THEIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L I CENSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.99%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.99%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.51%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 66.25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.78
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.56%                 1.90%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VICINITY SHALL BE BORNE BY THE CONTRACTOR AND ASSUMED INCLUDED IN THE CONTRACT.                                              No. 280090




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              INEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             THEODORE J.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD LO
                                           //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              65.99                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONTRACTOR TO FIELD VERIFY BOTH THE VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL LOCATION OF ALL EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOC               65.91
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UTILITIES PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTING ANY NEW UTILITY LINE OR STRUCTURE. CONTRACTOR TO REPORT                                   DIDAS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ANY DESIGN DISCREPANCIES IN HORIZONTAL OR VERTICAL LOCATIONS TO ENGINEER. NO ADDITIONAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            65.75 TBC                                                          66.21 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COMPENSATION SHALL BE PAID TO THE CONTRACTOR FOR DAMAGE AND/OR REPAIR TO THESE FACILITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ATE      AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OF UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONCRETE SIDEWALK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CAUSED BY HIS WORK FORCE, OR FOR ANY WORK HAVING TO BE DONE DUE TO FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.75%              65.87                 2.00%                              65.75 TOC                                                          66.21 TOC                                                                                         2.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 2C)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.45%                    THESE REQUIREMENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            66.77
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.94%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                69                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONTRACTOR MUST START AT LOW END OF ALL NEW GRAVITY UTILITY LINES AND WORK UPSTREAM. ALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONCRETE SIDEWALK                                                                             PROPOSED CONNECTIONS TO EXISTING UTILITY LINES OR STRUCTURES ARE TO BE FIELD VERIFIED FOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.00%


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 2C)                                                                       BOTH VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL LOCATION, PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTING ANY NEW UTILITY LINE OR


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     STRUCTURE. NO ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION SHALL BE PAID TO THE CONTRACTOR FOR ANY WORK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HAVING TO BE DONE DUE TO FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THESE REQUIREMENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.00%                                                                 1.94%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   65.87
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  69.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                             67.40                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ALL ELEVATIONS SHOWN AT TOP AND BOTTOM OF WALL(S), IF ANY, ARE ELEVATIONS AT FINISH GRADE,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           69.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            65.75 TBC                                                          66.21 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               67.47


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            65.25 FL                                                           65.71 FL                                                                           EX PAD                                                                                                     EX VAULT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CURB AND GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (CONSTRUCTED                                                                                                                                                               P WR
                                                                                                                                                                  1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WITH PHASE 2B)                                                                                                                   PWRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KEYED NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROVIDE, INSTALL AND/OR CONSTRUCT THE FOLLOWING PER THE SPECIFICATIONS GIVEN OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.55%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EX VAULT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REFERENCED AND THE DETAILS NOTED AND AS SHOWN ON THE CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX VAULT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       67.33




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    67.35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CURB AND GUTTER



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1    GRADE SITE TO ELEVATIONS AND CONTOURS SHOWN ON PLAN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5 15.0 LF @ 1.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WITH PHASE 2B)                                                                                                                             66.33                                                                                                                         66.77




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2    CORE-CONNECT NEW STORM DRAIN LINE TO EXISTING STORM DRAIN STRUCTURE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.00%                                                                                2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5 5.0 LF @ 1.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC                                                                                                                           TOC



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWR PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        66.21 TBC
                                                                                             RETAIL PAD 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.47%                                    2.00%                                                             1.76%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ///////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   65.98                                                 65.65 TBC                                      65.67 TOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3    STORM DRAIN CLEANOUT, PER APWA PLAN NO. 431.
                                                                                                           FFE: 4366.25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOC                                                   65.32 TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7 IE: 4361.94                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8" HDPE INLINE DRAIN BASIN WITH HEAVY DUTY, PEDESTRIAN SAFE GRATE. SEE DETAIL 'D1', SHEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C5.02.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX GRATE: 4365.15                                                                 S                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3 IE: 4361.89                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RETAIL PAD 3                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR PWR


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NEW 6" IE IN: 4361.74 (NW)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX 12" IE OUT: 4361.24 (NE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FFE: 4367.08                                                                                                                                                            42,833 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5    6" DIAMETER HDPE STORM DRAIN LINE. SEE APWA PLANS NO. 381 & 382 FOR TRENCHING DETAIL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                     PHASE 3 RETAIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.98 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6    8" DIAMETER HDPE STORM DRAIN LINE. SEE APWA PLANS NO. 381 & 382 FOR TRENCHING DETAIL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NE 1/4 & SE 1/4 OF SEC. 9 & NW 1/4 & SW 1/4 OF SEC. 10, T2S, R1W, SLB&M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.45%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.44%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7    STUB, CAP AND MARK STORM DRAIN LINE, FOR FUTURE CONNECTION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PHASE 2C RETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.75%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.95%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (CONSTRUCTED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RETAIL PAD 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WITH PHASE 2B)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ASPHALT DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WITH PHASE 2C)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FFE: 4369.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HOLLADAY HILLS - BLOCK H-I-J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PHASE 3 - RETAIL PADS 1 & 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            69
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PHASE 3 CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4835 SOUTH HIGHLAND DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PHASE 2C RETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      66.70                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               66.59 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
        SEE SHEET C2.11 FOR CONTINUATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WITH PHASE 2C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.46%                           66.05 TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         65.86 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.95%              65.98                                                 65.53 TOA
MATCH LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONCRETE SIDEWALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CURB AND GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WITH PHASE 2C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HOLLADAY CITY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WITH PHASE 2B)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.81%                                                       2.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.42%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.74%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.40%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4367
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             36                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             66.97                                  67.08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           66.85 TBC                                                                                  TOC                                     FG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    436
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         66.30 TBC                                                         66.31 TOA                                              66.82                               66.94
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         65.97 TOA                                                                                                                TBC                                 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.43%                        66.17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.10%




                                           //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            66.25                                                                                                                                                        1.74%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7.50%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7.50%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.64%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.86%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  69.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           67.08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4.91%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOC                                                    65.98                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     66.49                      67.08
                                                                                                            0.00%                                                                                                                                                                        66.19




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOC                        TOC                        //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                66.08                                                                                 66.36




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.14%                                                     1.55%                                                                 1.17%                                                                                       2.00%                                                  4.94%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8.06%
                                                                                           66.05 2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                             2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      66.05 2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOC                                                                                   TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                             PHASE 3 CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.17%




                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      66.94




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  66.94




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         69.36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONCRETE SIDEWALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                66.00                                                                                 66.22                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 2C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W 65.88




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        66.35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FO
                                                                                           TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                            0.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.90%                                                     1.79%                                                                 0.92%                                                                                       2.00%                                                  4.94%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8.06%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOC                                                                                   TOC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWR                        PWR                  PWR                   PWR                   PWR                      PWR                    PWR                        PWR                        PWR                      PWR                      PWR                                                                                            PWR                         PWR                       PWR                              PWR                 PWR                            PWR                    PWR                        PWR                      PWR                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWR                        PWR                  PWR                   PWR                   PWR                      PWR                    PWR                        PWR                        PWR                      PWR                      PWR                                                                                            PWR                         PWR                       PWR                              PWR                 PWR                            PWR                    PWR                        PWR                      PWR                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IRR
                                                                                           25.1%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 32.1%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IG IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14.5%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.17%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12.3%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10.5%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10.5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.7%
                                                                                                                                    R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                    PW
                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                        PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   65.84                                                                                                                                                             66.12PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWR                               PWR                                       PWR                                                                                      PWR                                               PWR                                                                                                              PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                   PWR PWR                           PWR PWR                     PWR PWR                      PWR PWR                                    PWR PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR PWR                          PWR                             PWR                              PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR                         PWR                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR
                                                                                                                              PWR




                                             PWR            PWR         PWR
                                                                        PWR
                                                                                     PWR                     PWR PWR
                                                                                                                 PWR                               PWR                               PWR                         PWR                          PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IRR


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR                                                  PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR                      TOCPWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR                              PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR                                  PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR                                               TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR                                        PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR                              PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR                                                                                                                                                                  PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR                        PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR                         PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR                       PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR                                             PWR                       PWR                                                                                       PWR                    PWR                                               PWR                         PWR                  PWR                                                                                                                       PWR                       PWR                                                PWR                   PWR                         PWR                                            PWR                       PWR                 PWR
                                             PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.2%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L
                                                                                          LOW                                            LOW                                                LOW                                          LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOW




                                                 LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IR
                                                                                                                                                                      W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LO
                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W-L
                                                                                                                                                            W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR PWR




                                                 W-L                     W-L                        W-L                       W-L                           W-L                                   W-L                W-L                                  W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W-L                       W-L                             W-L                              W-L                            W-L                                W-L                                                                                        W-L                                     W-L                                           W-L                                                                                                              W-L                                    W-L                         W-L                     W-L                       W-L                       W-L                    W-L                    W-L                     W-L                  W-L                 W-L                      W-L                      W-L                      W-L                          W-L                    W-L                                W-L                                                                                  W-L                         W-L                          W-L                           W-L                  W-L                                    W-L                       W-L                        W-L                    W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXISTING CURB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AND GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR                                                                                                            PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR                                 PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR                      PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR                           PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR                     PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR                          PWR                         PWR                                        PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR              LOWPWR                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COMM                              COMM                     COMM                             COMM                    COMM                           COMM                       COMM
                                                                                                                                                    PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR PWR COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COMM                            COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS




                                                                                                                   PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COMM                       COMM                 COMM                       COMM                      COMM                          COMM                           COMM                       COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CM




                                                                  PWR                      PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COMM                                    COMM                                                                                                             COMM                                                       COMM                             COMM                      COMM                        COMM                    COMM
                             PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMM                                     COMM                                                 COMM                                                         FO                                                                                                   FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COMM                                COMM                               COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FO                                 FO                             FO                                                  PWR                                        PWR                 PWR                     PWR                    PWR                        PWR                        PWR                        PWR                   PWR                                                                                             PWR                           PWR                       PWR                           PWR                     PWR                         PWR                     PWR                         PWR                      PWR                   PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FO                              FO
                                                                                                                                                                             COMM                            COMM                           COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR FO              PWR             FO      PWR                   PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FO                          PWR FO                     PWR                        PWR                   PWR                                                                                             PWR                           PWR                       PWR                           PWR                     PWR                         PWR                     PWR                         PWR                      PWR                   PWR
                                                                                                                                         COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                 COMM                     COMM                            COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FO                                                                                                             FO                                FO                                     FO                                FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FO                                   FO                                FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS                          SS                         SS                            SS                      SS                  SS                         SS                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS                   SS                     SS                      SS                       SS                        SS                    SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                             SS                      SS                      SS                              SS                             SS                          SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS                      SS                      SS                     SS                     SS                    SS                   SS                    SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS                           SS                                                                                    SS                                                                                                                                                                                        SS                     SS                             SS                                                                                                                                                              SS                                        SS                                SS                                                                         SS                                                                                            SS                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RODEO WAY DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COMMON GRADING ABBREVIATIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT BENCHMARK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SEE SHEET C0.01 FOR ADDITIONAL ABBREVIATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - BFE                  BASEMENT FLOOR ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FO




                                           GAS                     GAS                        GAS                      GAS                            GAS                                  GAS                         GAS                          GAS                                     GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS                      GAS                              GAS                              GAS                              GAS                            GAS                                         GAS                                                GAS                                     GAS                                        GAS                                                                                                                GAS                                     GAS                         GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - BW                   FINISH GRADE AT BOTTOM OF WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - EX or EXIST          EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - EOA                  EDGE OF ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD                         SD                       SD                           SD                  SD                        SD                      SD                        SD                      SD                    SD                                    - EOC                  EDGE OF CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD                                                                               SD                        SD                                                                                        SD                    SD                     SD                   SD                   SD                   SD                    SD                    SD                       SD                       SD                       SD                    SD                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD                               SD                          SD                               SD                                SD                                              SD                                     SD                               SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD




                                                                                                     SD                       SD                          SD                                SD                         SD                           SD                                    SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD                      SD
                                                       SD                     SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - FFE                  FINISH FLOOR ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - FG                   FINISH GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  - FL                   FLOW LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - GB                   GRADE BREAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - HP                   HIGH POINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - LP                   LOW POINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWPWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - NG                   NATURAL GROUND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R




                                                                           PWR                                    PWR                             PWR                            PWR                             PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS                     GAS                    GAS                     GAS                     GAS                   GAS                   GAS                    GAS                       GAS                      GAS                      GAS                         GAS                      GAS                                                                                             GAS                         GAS                       GAS                              GAS                 GAS                       GAS                         GAS                     GAS                         GAS                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RR




                                                   PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PPWW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - SDCB                 STORM DRAIN CATCH BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - SDCO                 STORM DRAIN CLEANOUT BOX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR                         PWR                     PWR                    PWR                      PWR                    PWR                   PWR                  PWR                    PWR                    PWR                         PWR                      PWR                       PWR                     PWR                                                                                             PWR                            PWR                   PWR                              PWR                    PWR                    PWR                         PWR                        PWR                      PWR                       PWR                              - SDDB                 STORM DRAIN DRAIN BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR                         PWR                     PWR                    PWR                      PWR                    PWR                   PWR                  PWR                    PWR                    PWR                         PWR                      PWR                       PWR                     PWR                                                                                             PWR                            PWR                   PWR                              PWR                    PWR                    PWR                         PWR                        PWR                      PWR                       PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - SDMH                 STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - TBC                  TOP BACK OF CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - TOA                  TOP OF ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - TOC                  TOP OF CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - TOG                  TOP OF GRATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR                              PWR                            PWR                                           PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR                              PWR                            PWR                                           PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         - TOW                  TOP OF WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - TW                   FINISH GRADE AT TOP OF WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - WW                   WATERWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AMY VIEW LANE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SCOPE LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW                   AREA WITHIN LIMIT OF WORK LINE PART OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   THIS PERMIT. AREA OUTSIDE OF LIMIT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW                   WORK LINE EXCLUDED FROM THIS PERMIT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS                                 SS                                             SS                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                     BLOCK D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BLOCK E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS                           SS
                                                                                                         158,423 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         168,390 SQFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REV
                                                                                                          3.64 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.86 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROJECT BENCHMARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT NO: 23301.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE LOCATED AT THE INTERSECTION OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RODEO WAY DRIVE AND AMY VIEW LANE.                                            DESIGNED BY: JHF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BENCHMARK ELEVATION: 4365.89'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHECKED BY: TJD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DATE:                     DEC 10, 2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FO



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NOTICE!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GRADING AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RESPONSIBLE FOR THE LOCATION,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DRAINAGE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROTECTION, AND RESTORATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OF ALL BURIED OR ABOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GROUND UTILITIES, SHOWN OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C2.12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS                                 SS                                             SS                                                                           SS                                                                                     SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOT SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS                                               SS                                     SS                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          71.82
                                                        PHASE 2 PARKING LOT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FG                                                                                                                                                                   3.05%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               71.94
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           71.68




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FG
                                                        (CONSTRUCTED WITH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7
                                                           TEMP 2 PHASE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4  36
                                                               LOT 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARKING STRUCTURE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LIFE TIME                                                                                                               LOT 6
      EX TOA
       66.00




                                                              58,277 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LEVEL 3: 4388.58                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FFE 4374.00                                                                                                   174,585 SQFT




                                                                                                   EX TOA
                                                                                                    66.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4370
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LEVEL 2: 4377.83
                                                              1.34 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             66.02                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LEVEL 1: 4366.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4.01 ACRES                                                                                                              SCALE: 1" = 10'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EX TOA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARKING STALLS: 345

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                                            1.3                                                               1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4370                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0             5'     10'                     20'             30'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           16%
                                                                                                                                               9%                                                                5%
       2.00%




                                                                                                           2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.96%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PHASE 2B PARKING STRUCTURE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WITH PHASE 2B)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VERTI-BLOCK RETAINING WALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                 0.00%                                                                                0.00%                                                                 0.83%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    66.43
                                                                                                   66.28                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GENERAL NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                   66.28
                                                                                                   TOA




                                                                                                                                                                   TOA
      66.28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SITE GRADING SHALL BE PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS AND THE
      TOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                66.38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          66.12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RECOMMENDATIONS SET FORTH IN THE SOILS REPORT (IF AVAILABLE). THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RESPONSIBLE FOR REMOVING AND REPLACING ALL SOFT, YIELDING OR UNSUITABLE MATERIALS AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   66.50 TOC 0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REPLACING WITH SUITABLE MATERIALS AS SPECIFIED IN THE SOILS REPORT. ALL EXCAVATED OR FILLED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AREAS SHALL BE COMPACTED TO 95% OF MODIFIED PROCTOR MAXIMUM DENSITY PER ASTM TEST D-1557




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.99%
                                                                                                                                                                                    8%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXCEPT UNDER BUILDING FOUNDATION WHERE IT SHALL BE 98% MIN. OF MAXIMUM DENSITY. MOISTURE




                                                                                                                                                                                               66.10 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   66.38 TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                               66.10 TOA
                                                                                                                                       9%

                                                                                                                                                                             1. 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        66.44                         66.44
      1.80%




                                                                                                   1.80%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           66.47




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         67.59
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONTENT AT TIME OF PLACEMENT SHALL NOT EXCEED 2% ABOVE NOR 3% BELOW OPTIMUM. CONTRACTOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC
                                                                                                                                   1 .4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          66.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC                           TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           66.43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      66.31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SHALL SUBMIT A COMPACTION REPORT PREPARED BY A QUALIFIED REGISTERED SOILS ENGINEER,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 66.50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               66.50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   66.50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 66.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.72%                                                                                                                                TOA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           66.45                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VERIFYING THAT ALL FILLED AREAS AND SUBGRADE AREAS WITHIN THE BUILDING PAD AREA AND AREAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC                66.43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TO BE PAVED, HAVE BEEN COMPACTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE PLANS & SPECS AND THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                             8.00%                         1.80%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.00%                                                                                  0.51%                                                                                                                              0.50%                                                                                       0.00%                                                     0.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RECOMMENDATIONS SET FORTH IN THE SOILS REPORT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONCRETE SIDEWALK (CONSTRUCTED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.50%
                                                                                                                                                                                            1.80%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.83%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.83%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.83%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.83%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.83%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.83%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.06%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONCRETE SIDEWALK (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WITH PHASE 2B)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WITH LIFE TIME PHASE)                                                                                                                                                           THE CONTRACTOR IS TO USE BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES FOR PROVIDING EROSION CONTROL FOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                             7.96%
                                                 0.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT. SPECIFIC DETAILS SHOWN ON SHEET C2.30 SHALL BE USED IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD                                  SD                                         SD                                              SD                                        SD                                                                                                                SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COMBINATION WITH OTHER ACCEPTED LOCAL PRACTICES.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5.00%                                                                                                                                                                         0.00%                                                                                                          0.00%                                                                                                                     0.00%                                                                                                                                                                            5.00%
                                                                                                   65.89
                                                                                                   TOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.79                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.51%                                                                                                                                                     0.50%                                                                                                                                  0.50%                                                                                                                                0.50%                                                                     4.10%                                                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING UNDERGROUND UTILITIES AND IMPROVEMENTS ARE SHOWN IN THEIR APPROXIMATE LOCATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      65.87 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 66.14 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     66.78 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     66.89 TOC
      65.89




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      66.20 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 66.47 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     67.11 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     67.43 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               66.39 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             66.39 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     66.39 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                         65.89 EX TOA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               66.39 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             66.39 TBC
      TOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    %                                                                                                                            0.82                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.92%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     65.89 FL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BASED UPON RECORD INFORMATION AVAILABLE AT THE TIME OF PREPARATION OF PLANS. LOCATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             66.03 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             66.03 TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             66.37 TBC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             66.37 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                         65.89 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAY NOT HAVE BEEN VERIFIED IN THE FIELD AND NO GUARANTEE IS MADE AS TO ACCURACY OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4.96%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COMPLETENESS OF THE INFORMATION SHOWN. IT SHALL BE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DETERMINE THE EXISTENCE AND LOCATION OF THOSE UTILITIES SHOWN ON THESE PLANS OR INDICATED                                     OFESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IN THE FIELD BY LOCATING SERVICES. ANY ADDITIONAL COSTS INCURRED AS A RESULT OF CONTRACTOR'S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4368
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONCRETE DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.3                                                                                                                                                                         FAILURE TO VERIFY LOCATIONS OF EXISTING UTILITIES PRIOR TO BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION IN THEIR                                  12/15/25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L I CENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (CONSTRUCTED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONCRETE DRIVE                                      8%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.03%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.59%
                                                                                                                                                        0%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.58%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.82%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.03%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.63%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.53%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.30%                                                                                                                                1.97%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.09%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VICINITY SHALL BE BORNE BY THE CONTRACTOR AND ASSUMED INCLUDED IN THE CONTRACT.                                             No. 280090




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.69%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WITH PHASE 2B)
                                                                                                                                                    1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (CONSTRUCTED WITH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LIFE TIME PHASE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       THEODORE J.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TABLE-TOP DRIVE (CONSTRUCTED SD
      1.53%




                                                                                                   1.99%




                                          ASPHALT DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONTRACTOR TO FIELD VERIFY BOTH THE VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL LOCATION OF ALL EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.99%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.99%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.4                                                  WITH PHASE 2B)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UTILITIES PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTING ANY NEW UTILITY LINE OR STRUCTURE. CONTRACTOR TO REPORT                                  DIDAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         66.46 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             66.46 TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             437




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             67.00 TBC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         67.00 TBC
                                          (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4% G                                                                                                                             G                                        0%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6" STORM DRAIN LATERAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6" STORM DRAIN LATERAL (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ANY DESIGN DISCREPANCIES IN HORIZONTAL OR VERTICAL LOCATIONS TO ENGINEER. NO ADDITIONAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             66.65 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             66.65 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     67.00 TBC
                                          WITH PHASE 2B)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             67.09 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           67.42 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             67.63 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           67.75 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CURB AND GUTTER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CURB AND GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 5)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WITH LIFE TIME PHASE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     66.50 FL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AH
                     W                                          W                                                   W                                                W                                                                W                                                                                                                                               W                                           W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMPENSATION SHALL BE PAID TO THE CONTRACTOR FOR DAMAGE AND/OR REPAIR TO THESE FACILITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (CONSTRUCTED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (CONSTRUCTED WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CAUSED BY HIS WORK FORCE, OR FOR ANY WORK HAVING TO BE DONE DUE TO FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH                                   OF UT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WITH PHASE 2B)                                                         0.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.00%                                                                                                                   LIFE TIME PHASE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.97%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THESE REQUIREMENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          66.54                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW 1.53%                                                                         LOW                                         LOW                                       LOW                                   LOW                                       LOW                                LOW                                LOW                                         LOW                                         LOW                                                                                                               LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             67.84
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOC                                                                                                                                                                             %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOW                                                  LOW                              LOW                                         LOW                                       LOW                                                                                            CONTRACTOR MUST START AT LOW END OF ALL NEW GRAVITY UTILITY LINES AND WORK UPSTREAM. ALL
      65.43 TOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
      65.76 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3 EX IE: 4361.75                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROPOSED CONNECTIONS TO EXISTING UTILITY LINES OR STRUCTURES ARE TO BE FIELD VERIFIED FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               65.76 TOC




                                      CURB AND GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                         65.76 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               65.76 TBC
                                                                                                    65.29 TOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                    65.62 TBC




               G                                  G                                                   G                                                       G                                                   G                                                                                                                                            SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             66.77
                                                                                                                                                                                         65.26 FL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BOTH VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL LOCATION, PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTING ANY NEW UTILITY LINE OR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.61%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.31%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.31%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.31%
                                      (CONSTRUCTED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PHASE 2C CONSTRUCTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.99%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  66.61 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           36
                                      WITH PHASE                                                                                                                                              SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STRUCTURE. NO ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION SHALL BE PAID TO THE CONTRACTOR FOR ANY WORK
                                             0.51%2B)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 67.08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  66.61 TOC                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          [4
                                                                                                                                                         0.66%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.30%                                             0.00%                                                                               0.00%                                                                                                            0.00%                                                                                              0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HAVING TO BE DONE DUE TO FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THESE REQUIREMENTS.
                                                                                                                                                   SD                                                                                5.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.13%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      67.08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.94%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
                           SD                                         SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.86%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             69.50                                                                                                              ALL ELEVATIONS SHOWN AT TOP AND BOTTOM OF WALL(S), IF ANY, ARE ELEVATIONS AT FINISH GRADE,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6.13%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         68.32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               67.08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         67.08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           67.08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     67.08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4 3.4 LF @ 1.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 66.38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC                                                                                                                UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5 IE: 4361.78




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KEYED NOTES:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROVIDE, INSTALL AND/OR CONSTRUCT THE FOLLOWING PER THE SPECIFICATIONS GIVEN OR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.00%
                                                                           CONCRETE SIDEWALK (TO BE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.99%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.99%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.51%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REFERENCED AND THE DETAILS NOTED AND AS SHOWN ON THE CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.78
                                                                           CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 3)
 //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PHASE 2C CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                             1    GRADE SITE TO ELEVATIONS AND CONTOURS SHOWN ON PLAN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2    CORE-CONNECT NEW STORM DRAIN LINE TO EXISTING STORM DRAIN STRUCTURE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PHASE 2C CONSTRUCTION



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 65.75 TBC                                                         66.21 TBC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3    STORM DRAIN CLEANOUT, PER APWA PLAN NO. 431.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 65.75 TOC                                                         66.21 TOC                                                                                                              2.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               66.77                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.45%                                                               4    6" DIAMETER HDPE STORM DRAIN LINE. SEE APWA PLANS NO. 381 & 382 FOR TRENCHING DETAIL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.94%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  69
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5    STUB, CAP AND MARK STORM DRAIN LINE, FOR FUTURE CONNECTION.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.00%


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NE 1/4 & SE 1/4 OF SEC. 9 & NW 1/4 & SW 1/4 OF SEC. 10, T2S, R1W, SLB&M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.94%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  69.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                67.40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          69.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 65.75 TBC                                                         66.21 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            67.47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 65.25 FL                                                          65.71 FL                                                                    EX PAD                                                                                                     EX VAULT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S                                              S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PHASE 2C - RETAIL PADS 3, 4 & 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CURB AND GUTTER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HOLLADAY HILLS - BLOCK H-I-J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (CONSTRUCTED                                                                                                                                             P WR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WITH PHASE 2B)                                                                                                 PWRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.55%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX VAULT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX VAULT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4835 SOUTH HIGHLAND DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    67.33




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  67.35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CURB AND GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (CONSTRUCTED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SEE SHEET C2.12 FOR CONTINUATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 66.33                                                                                                                         66.77
                                                    FUTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WITH PHASE 2B)                                                                                      2.00%                                                                                 2.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC                                                                                                                           TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWR PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   66.21 TBC
                                                  RETAIL PAD 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.76%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ///////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               65.65 TBC                                                           65.67 TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MATCH LINE
                                                               FFE: 4366.25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    65.32 TOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HOLLADAY CITY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RETAIL PAD 3                                                                                                                                                                             LOT 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FFE: 4367.08                                                                                                                                                             42,833 SQFT
                                                          PHASE 3 RETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.98 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WITH PHASE 2B)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GASPHALT DRIVE




                                                       (TO BE CONSTRUCTED
                                                           WITH PHASE 3)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.45%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.44%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.75%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PHASE 2C RETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RETAIL PAD 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.00%                                                               7%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FFE: 4369.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONCRETE SIDEWALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               69
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (TO BE CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WITH PHASE 3)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PHASE 2C RETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 66.70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   66.59 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.46%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   66.05 TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               65.86 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               65.53 TOA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CURB AND GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WITH PHASE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.6   2B)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.42%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.74%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.40%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4367
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 [4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                36                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                66.97                                   67.08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            66.85 TBC                                                                              TOC                                      FG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    436
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           66.30 TBC                                                        66.31 TOA                                          66.82                               66.94
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           65.97 TOA                                                                                                           TBC                                 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.10%




 //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IE: 4363.22 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.74%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7.50%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7.50%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.64%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.86%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 69.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          67.08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          66.49                       67.08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOC                         TOC                       //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  66.08                                                                              66.36                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5.0 LF @ 1.00% 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.17%                                                                              2.00%                                                     4.94%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.06%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR




                                                                                                                    CONCRETE SIDEWALK (TO BE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOC                                                                                TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              [ 4369
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IE: 4363.12 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.17%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         [ 4368
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   66.94




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 66.94




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        69.36
                                                                                                                    CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 3)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              [ 4367 ]                                                   1                                                            PHASE 2C CONSTRUCTION                                                 [ 4367 ]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  66.00                                                                              66.22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     66.35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.92%                                                                              2.00%                                                     4.94%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.06%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COMMON GRADING ABBREVIATIONS:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC                                                                                TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                 IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR                        PWR                  PWR                   PWR                   PWR                      PWR                     PWR                        PWR                        PWR                      PWR                      PWR                                                                                            PWR                         PWR                       PWR                               PWR                 PWR                            PWR                    PWR                        PWR                      PWR                       PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR                        PWR                  PWR                   PWR                   PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          [ 4367 ]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR                     PWR                        PWR                        PWR                      PWR                      PWR                                                                                            PWR                         PWR                       PWR                               PWR                 PWR                            PWR                    PWR                        PWR                      PWR                       PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IRR



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SEE SHEET C0.01 FOR ADDITIONAL ABBREVIATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 [ 4369 ]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                32.1%
                                                                                                                                                                                              IG IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.17%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12.3%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10.5%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10.5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.7%
                                                                                       R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR
                                                                                       PW
                                                                            R
                                                                            PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      65.84                                                                                                                                                     66.12PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7.0 LF @ 1.00% 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                     IRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR                            PWR                                   PWR                                                                                       PWR                                              PWR                                                                                                              PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 - BFE                  BASEMENT FLOOR ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS




                                                                                                    PWR PWR                          PWR PWR                      PWR PWR                      PWR PWR                                    PWR PWR                                                                                                                     PWR PWR                        PWR                          PWR                       PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR                         PWR                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR
                                                                                 PWR




      PWR          PWR         PWR         PWR                   PWR PWR
                                                                     PWR                            PWR                              PWR                          PWR                          PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IRR


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR                                                                                                                         PWR                                              PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWR            TOCPWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR                             PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR                            PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR                                             TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR                                        PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR                               PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR                                                                                                                                                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR                        PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR                         PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWR                       PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR                                              PWR                       PWR                                                                                       PWR                     PWR                                               PWR                         PWR                    PWR                                                                                                                     PWR                       PWR                                                 PWR                   PWR                         PWR                                            PWR                          PWR                 PWR
                               PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - BW                   FINISH GRADE AT BOTTOM OF WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                               IRR



      PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.2%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - EX or EXIST          EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2                                                                                LOW                                         LOW                                       LOW                                      LOW                                     LOW                                 LOW                                  LOW                                    LOW                                         LOW                                        LOW                                                                                                           LOW                                           LOW                                           LOW                                           LOW                                   LOW                                         LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - EOA                  EDGE OF ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IR
                                                                                                                        W-L




                                                                                                                                             W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - EOC                  EDGE OF CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L
                                                                                                              W-L




                                                                                                                                      W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR PWR




        W-L                     W-L                     W-L                      W-L                          W-L                                  W-L                       W-L                           W-L                                                                                                                                                              W-L                      W-L                          W-L                       W-L                           W-L                             W-L                                                                                    W-L                                      W-L                                          W-L                                                                                                              W-L                                    W-L                         W-L                     W-L                       W-L                        W-L                    W-L                    W-L                     W-L                  W-L                 W-L                      W-L                       W-L                      W-L                          W-L                    W-L                                W-L                                                                                   W-L                        W-L                          W-L                            W-L            EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L    CURB                                W-L                       W-L                        W-L                       W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXISTING CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - FFE                  FINISH FLOOR ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SDCB #33B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AND GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AND GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - FG                   FINISH GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GRATE: 4365.76
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - FL                   FLOW LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR                                                                                                            PWR                        PWR NEW 6" IE IN: 4363.05 (NE) PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR                               PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - GB                   GRADE BREAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR                        PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR
                                                                                                                                      PWR                          PWR                         PWR                                        PWR                                                                                                                         PWR                      PWR                        PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EX 12" IE OUT: 4362.55 (SW)                                                                        PWR PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COMM                               COMM                     COMM                             COMM                    COMM                           COMM                          COMM                                                                           - HP                   HIGH POINT
                                                                                                     PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR PWR COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COMM                            COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS




                                                                       PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COMM                       COMM                  COMM                      COMM                       COMM                          COMM                           COMM                       COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CM




                         PWR                     PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COMM                                 COMM                                                                                                               COMM                                                       COMM                             COMM                     COMM                         COMM                     COMM
PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COMM                               COMM                                                                                                            FO                                                                                                  FO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               - LP                   LOW POINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COMM                           COMM                          COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FO                               FO                                FO                                                  PWR                                        PWR                  PWR                    PWR                     PWR                        PWR                        PWR                        PWR                    PWR                                                                                              PWR                         PWR                       PWR                            PWR                     PWR                         PWR                     PWR                         PWR                      PWR                      PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COMM                                                                                                                             COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FO                              FO
                                                                                                                                                                                             COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR FO               PWR            FO      PWR                    PWR                         PWR FO                     PWR                        PWR                    PWR                                                                                              PWR                         PWR                       PWR                            PWR                     PWR                         PWR                     PWR                         PWR                      PWR                      PWR
                                                                                            COMM                               COMM                           COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FO                                                                          FO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              - NG                   NATURAL GROUND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




       COMM                      COMM                         COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FO                                                                                                            FO                                FO                                      FO                                FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FO                                   FO                                   FO                                                                      - SDCB                 STORM DRAIN CATCH BASIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - SDCO                 STORM DRAIN CLEANOUT BOX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - SDDB                 STORM DRAIN DRAIN BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - SDMH                 STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS                         SS                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS                   SS                      SS                      SS                       SS                        SS                    SS                                                                                         SS                            SS                       SS                            SS                       SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                       - TBC                  TOP BACK OF CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                    SS                     SS                    SS                          SS                               SS                         SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS                      SS                      SS                      SS                     SS                    SS                   SS                    SS
                                                                                                                                                                                    SS                           SS                                                         SS                                                                                                   SS                    SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS                                 SS                                                                        SS                                                                                            SS                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS                                                                                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - TOA                  TOP OF ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RODEO WAY DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               - TOC                  TOP OF CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - TOG                  TOP OF GRATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT BENCHMARK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              - TOW                  TOP OF WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - TW                   FINISH GRADE AT TOP OF WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - WW                   WATERWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FO




 GAS                      GAS                     GAS                      GAS                         GAS                                  GAS                         GAS                          GAS                                     GAS                                                                                                                           GAS                      GAS                       GAS                         GAS                            GAS                            GAS                                   GAS                                                GAS                                      GAS                                       GAS                                                                                                                GAS                                     GAS                         GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD                         SD                       SD                            SD                  SD                        SD                      SD                        SD                      SD                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD                                                                               SD                        SD                                                                                        SD                     SD                     SD                   SD                   SD                   SD                    SD                     SD                       SD                       SD                       SD                    SD                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD                                          SD                                     SD                                SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD                     SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD                      SD                       SD                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD




              SD                     SD                  SD                      SD                          SD                              SD                         SD                           SD                                    SD                                                                                                                         SD                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SCOPE LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWPWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AREA WITHIN LIMIT OF WORK LINE PART OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R




                                  PWR                                 PWR                          PWR                             PWR                            PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS                        GAS                     GAS                     GAS                     GAS                   GAS                   GAS                    GAS                        GAS                      GAS                      GAS                         GAS                      GAS                                                                                             GAS                         GAS                       GAS                               GAS                 GAS                       GAS                         GAS                     GAS                         GAS                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RR




          PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PPWW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              THIS PERMIT. AREA OUTSIDE OF LIMIT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW                    WORK LINE EXCLUDED FROM THIS PERMIT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR                      PWR                        PWR                     PWR                       PWR                   PWR                   PWR                  PWR                    PWR                     PWR                         PWR                      PWR                       PWR                     PWR                                                                                               PWR                          PWR                   PWR                               PWR                    PWR                    PWR                         PWR                        PWR                         PWR                       PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR                      PWR                        PWR                     PWR                       PWR                   PWR                   PWR                  PWR                    PWR                     PWR                         PWR                      PWR                       PWR                     PWR                                                                                               PWR                          PWR                   PWR                               PWR                    PWR                    PWR                         PWR                        PWR                         PWR                       PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR                               PWR                       PWR                                       PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR                               PWR                       PWR                                       PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT BENCHMARK                                                   PROJECT NO: 23301.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE LOCATED AT THE INTERSECTION OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RODEO WAY DRIVE AND AMY VIEW LANE.                                            DESIGNED BY: JHF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BENCHMARK ELEVATION: 4365.89'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CHECKED BY: TJD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AMY VIEW LANE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DATE:                     DEC 10, 2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NOTICE!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                         BLOCK D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BLOCK E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GRADING AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                          158,423 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       168,390 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RESPONSIBLE FOR THE LOCATION,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                           3.64 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.86 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DRAINAGE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROTECTION, AND RESTORATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OF ALL BURIED OR ABOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS                             SS                                          SS                                     SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GROUND UTILITIES, SHOWN OR



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C2.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NOT SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                 4368




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          437
                                                                   73.40



                                                                                    73.49
                                                                                                                                                                              74.00




                                                                   TOC



                                                                                    TOC
                                                                                                                                              1.95%                            FG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            73.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC
                                                                             2.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9              LIFE TIME                                                                                                                                                   LOT 6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6




                                                                                                     73.57




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RT
                                                                                                                                                                     0.00%
                                                                                                      FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3




                                                                           0.00%
                                                                                   0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4                           FFE 4374.00                                                                                                                                 174,585 SQFT




                                                                                                                                             73.81




                                                                                                                                                                              73.91
                                                                                                                                             TOC




                                                                                                                                                                              TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NO
                                                             73.40           2.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.01 ACRES
                                                             TOC                                     73.49                               73.81
                                                                                                                       1.94%                                                      2.00%




                                                                           0.00%

                                                                                    2.00%




                                                                                                                                                            0.00%

                                                                                                                                                                     0.00%
                                                           4369
                                                                                                     TOC                                 TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 73.50
                                                                                                                       2.50%                                                      2.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOC
                                                             73.40
                                                             TOC                                                                         73.81                 2.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LIFE TIME



                                                                                    73.40
                                                                                    TOC
                                                                                                                                         TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (CONSTRUCTED WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LIFE TIME PHASE)
                                                                    73.38




                                                                                                                     73.38
                                                                    TOC




                                                                                                                     TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SCALE: 1" = 10'




                                                                                                                                                            4.91%

                                                                                                                                                                     4.91%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           74.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    74.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOC
                                                                    73.38                                             73.38                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0             5'     10'                     20'             30'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    73.51




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          73.51
                                                                    TOC                                               TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      73.74
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                       73.16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                             73.06                                     TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.20%                                                                                                                                                                          2.53%                       1.11%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          73.79                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.00%
                                                                                                                                             TOC
                                                                                                                                                                    7%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.57%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     73.50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       73.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.48%




                                                                                                                                                                               2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.57%
                                                                                                                                                               1.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD                                               SD                                                       SD                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.51%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.32%                                                                                                                                                                          3.19%                       2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                          72.93




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         73.71



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      73.71
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOC
                                                                                                                           FG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  73.39                                                      73.78




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          c
                                                                                               P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      73.68
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               72.93
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GENERAL NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        73.63
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   73.83 TS                                                                                                            73.83 TS                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOC                                                        TOC
                                                                                                                                                   73.04



                                                                                                                                                                         73.08
                                                                                                                                                   TOC



                                                                                                                                                                         TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.95% 73.39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   73.37 BS                                                                                                            73.37 BS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SITE GRADING SHALL BE PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS AND THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     73.71
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RECOMMENDATIONS SET FORTH IN THE SOILS REPORT (IF AVAILABLE). THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   73.34 TS                                                                                                            73.34 TS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.97%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.97%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4.95%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   72.88 BS                                                                                                            72.88 BS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RESPONSIBLE FOR REMOVING AND REPLACING ALL SOFT, YIELDING OR UNSUITABLE MATERIALS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REPLACING WITH SUITABLE MATERIALS AS SPECIFIED IN THE SOILS REPORT. ALL EXCAVATED OR FILLED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       72.39                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           72.85 TS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               72.82                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AREAS SHALL BE COMPACTED TO 95% OF MODIFIED PROCTOR MAXIMUM DENSITY PER ASTM TEST D-1557




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     72.20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             72.39 BS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 72.85 TS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         72.89                                                                                                                                 TOC                                                                  72.20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXCEPT UNDER BUILDING FOUNDATION WHERE IT SHALL BE 98% MIN. OF MAXIMUM DENSITY. MOISTURE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 72.39 BS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.03%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.03%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        73.56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            73.67




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    73.67
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONTENT AT TIME OF PLACEMENT SHALL NOT EXCEED 2% ABOVE NOR 3% BELOW OPTIMUM. CONTRACTOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.88%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          c
                                                                                               P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHALL SUBMIT A COMPACTION REPORT PREPARED BY A QUALIFIED REGISTERED SOILS ENGINEER,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.00%



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.00%



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               72.33 TS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                72.33 TS                                                                      72.70                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VERIFYING THAT ALL FILLED AREAS AND SUBGRADE AREAS WITHIN THE BUILDING PAD AREA AND AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               71.87 TS                            0.00%              72.33 TS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        72.33 TS               0.00%                                                     71.87 BS                                                                      TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TO BE PAVED, HAVE BEEN COMPACTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE PLANS & SPECS AND THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.88%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    72.08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        72.04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      71.87 BS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        71.87 BS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RECOMMENDATIONS SET FORTH IN THE SOILS REPORT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.07%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.07%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         71.82                                                               71.82




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.89%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.91%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           THE CONTRACTOR IS TO USE BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES FOR PROVIDING EROSION CONTROL FOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          72.70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC                                                                 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               72.08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       71.79 TS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.87%


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4.87%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOC
                                                                                                                                           70.14
                                                                                                                                           TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.93%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.99%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          71.66




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             71.78
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   STOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT. SPECIFIC DETAILS SHOWN ON SHEET C2.30 SHALL BE USED IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       71.33 BS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 71.79 TS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  71.85




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     71.35




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              71.35




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           71.85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               72.39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COMBINATION WITH OTHER ACCEPTED LOCAL PRACTICES.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                71.33 BS
                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.54%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.00%                                                                                        0.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          c
                                                                                               P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXISTING UNDERGROUND UTILITIES AND IMPROVEMENTS ARE SHOWN IN THEIR APPROXIMATE LOCATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.03%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8.33%                                                                                                                                                                                       8.33%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     71.73




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              71.73
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.88%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.88%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BASED UPON RECORD INFORMATION AVAILABLE AT THE TIME OF PREPARATION OF PLANS. LOCATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.00%


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MAY NOT HAVE BEEN VERIFIED IN THE FIELD AND NO GUARANTEE IS MADE AS TO ACCURACY OR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PPWW
                                 4.96%                                                                                                                                                                 3.50%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.00%                                                                                             4%                                                                                                                                            1.18%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8.33%                                                                                                                                                                                       8.33%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COMPLETENESS OF THE INFORMATION SHOWN. IT SHALL BE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OFESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             71.18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     72.53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.40%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DETERMINE THE EXISTENCE AND LOCATION OF THOSE UTILITIES SHOWN ON THESE PLANS OR INDICATED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC                                                                                            71.30                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  72.88




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 72.82
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IN THE FIELD BY LOCATING SERVICES. ANY ADDITIONAL COSTS INCURRED AS A RESULT OF CONTRACTOR'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             71.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12/15/25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     71.23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              71.23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FAILURE TO VERIFY LOCATIONS OF EXISTING UTILITIES PRIOR TO BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION IN THEIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L I CENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.38%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.00%                                                                                 0.61%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.97%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     71.07 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  71.19 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           71.19 TOC
                                                                                                                                             C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     71.61 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  71.73 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           71.73 TBC
                                                                                                                                             C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VICINITY SHALL BE BORNE BY THE CONTRACTOR AND ASSUMED INCLUDED IN THE CONTRACT.                                             No. 280090
                                                                                                                                    69.98 TB
                                                                                                                                    69.44 TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               71.07 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     71.73 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     72.27 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               72.73
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THEODORE J.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     72
                                                                                               P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.25%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONTRACTOR TO FIELD VERIFY BOTH THE VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL LOCATION OF ALL EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TO .80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DIDAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               71.61




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TO .73
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.16%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UTILITIES PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTING ANY NEW UTILITY LINE OR STRUCTURE. CONTRACTOR TO REPORT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   72
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   71.04                                                      71.27




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.21%                                                     1.12%                                                                6.21%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ANY DESIGN DISCREPANCIES IN HORIZONTAL OR VERTICAL LOCATIONS TO ENGINEER. NO ADDITIONAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOC                                                        TOC
                                                                                                                                                                       CONCRETE DRIVE                                                                                                               70.36 TOC                                                                                                                                                                                             1.20%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             71.00 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    70.90 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             71.54 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               71.04 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               71.27 TBC
                                                                                                                              1.96%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COMPENSATION SHALL BE PAID TO THE CONTRACTOR FOR DAMAGE AND/OR REPAIR TO THESE FACILITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               70.54 FL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               70.77 FL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OF UT
                                                                                                                                                                     (CONSTRUCTED WITH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         72                                            2.0                                                           CAUSED BY HIS WORK FORCE, OR FOR ANY WORK HAVING TO BE DONE DUE TO FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.76%                                                                                                                            .64                                                                      7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              71.78 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0%                      EX 2.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              72.32 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                       LIFE TIME PHASE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   72




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .14                                                                           TB 6                             THESE REQUIREMENTS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          72.22 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          72.76 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TO C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.58%


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.51%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.97%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.05%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.70%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.21%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S                                        S                                                                                                               S                                                                                                                                                                                     S                                                                   S                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2%                                                                                                                           C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7.8
                                                   4.35%                                                         P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CONTRACTOR MUST START AT LOW END OF ALL NEW GRAVITY UTILITY LINES AND WORK UPSTREAM. ALL
                                                                                                                                  C
                   FL




                                                                                                                                  C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                         69.40 TB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                                         69.07 TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EX 2.5                                          PROPOSED CONNECTIONS TO EXISTING UTILITY LINES OR STRUCTURES ARE TO BE FIELD VERIFIED FOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FL C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.96%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.98%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.95%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.95%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.98%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONCRETE DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RR
     LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .35 TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PPWW
                                                                                                                                                             P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     %                                                                                                                                                                    2%                                                                                                                                                                                 TB 7                                          BOTH VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL LOCATION, PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTING ANY NEW UTILITY LINE OR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.99%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.86%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.9                                                                                                            4%                                 2.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  72 .85




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (CONSTRUCTED WITH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                     L OW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     72
                                                                                                                                                                                                       P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LIFE TIME PHASE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       STRUCTURE. NO ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION SHALL BE PAID TO THE CONTRACTOR FOR ANY WORK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   c                                                                                                                           c                                                c                                   c                                        c                                                  c                                              c                                                                                                                                                                                                              c                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HAVING TO BE DONE DUE TO FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THESE REQUIREMENTS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                      L OW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7
                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.11%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX 1.97




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CURB AND GUTTER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               70.61 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              69.97 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      70.68 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     70.56 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70.75 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                71.65 TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              70.30 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      71.01 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     70.89 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           71.08 TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                71.98 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                 L OW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CURB AND GUTTER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ALL ELEVATIONS SHOWN AT TOP AND BOTTOM OF WALL(S), IF ANY, ARE ELEVATIONS AT FINISH GRADE,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               70.11 FL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         69.44




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (CONSTRUCTEDP WITH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P                                                  P                                                P                                                        P                                                             P                                                                                                                                     P                                               P                                    P                                         P                                               P                                                                  P                                                                                                                                                                                       P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      70.84 TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                69.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (CONSTRUCTED WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LIFE TIME PHASE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      70.34 FL
                                                                                                                                                                                                       L OW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LIFE TIME PHASE) 2.44%
                                                                                                                                                                                                     1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.11%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.51%                                                                                                            0.50%                                                                                                                         0.50%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      70.61                                                   70.84




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW
                                                                                           1                                                                                                                                                     L OW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.29%                                                                                                                          6.29%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.41




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.12%
                                                                5.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOC                                                     TOC                                                                                                                      SD                                                                                                                                     SD                                              SD                                   SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                    5%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  [ 43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOW                                                                                                                                                                             LOW                                                  LOW                                                                                                                                 LOW                                         LOW                                 LOW                                 LOW                                             LOW                                                        LOW                                                                                   LOW                                                                                                                                                          LOW                                                               LOW                                                                   LOW                                                          LOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KEYED NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                %                                                                                                         70
                                                                                                                                            0.54                                                                                                             ]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FL C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROVIDE, INSTALL AND/OR CONSTRUCT THE FOLLOWING PER THE SPECIFICATIONS GIVEN OR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          c




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.50%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .04 TB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EX GRATE: 4369.80                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX GRATE: 4370.34                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX GRATE: 4370.39                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REFERENCED AND THE DETAILS NOTED AND AS SHOWN ON THE CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  72 .54




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     72




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EX 12" IE OUT: 4367.03 (S)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD                                                                                0.97%                                                                                                                            EX 12" IE IN: 4367.00 (SE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EX 12" IE OUT: 4367.11 (NW)
                                                                              69.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             70.73                                                                  70.94                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5.0
                                                                               TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX 12" IE OUT: 4367.00 (W)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0%                                                                                                                                                                                                       1    GRADE SITE TO ELEVATIONS AND CONTOURS SHOWN ON PLAN.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC                                                                    TOC
                                                                                   4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               71.17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.50%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2    CORE-CONNECT NEW STORM DRAIN LINE TO EXISTING STORM DRAIN STRUCTURE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 69.36

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 70.88




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  72




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        71                                                                                               PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               71 .16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX .65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         70.87
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.15%                                                                                                                                                                   0.00%                                                                                0.00%                                                                                      0.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   71.17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      71.17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     71.17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            71.17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .66 TB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOC
                                                                  69.36                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70.87                                      70.86                                                                  71.04                                             71.04                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TO C                                                                                         FL                                                                                                                                        3    STORM DRAIN CLEANOUT, PER APWA PLAN NO. 431.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             71.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC
                                                                  TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC                                        TOC                                             1.4                    TOC                                               TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PPWW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                       0.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.09%                                  0.15%                                                                                                          0.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          71.22                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4    6" DIAMETER HDPE STORM DRAIN LINE. SEE APWA PLANS NO. 381 & 382 FOR TRENCHING DETAIL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          c




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     72                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.38%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.26%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.26%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.26%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.26%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONCRETE SIDEWALK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PHASE 2C CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TO .09                                                      %                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EB


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RR %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5    STUB, CAP AND MARK STORM DRAIN LINE, FOR FUTURE CONNECTION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.50%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.96%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.40%
                                                                   1.40%




                                                                                                                                                            1.40%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.40%



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.40%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.50%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (CONSTRUCTED WITH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     71.33




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PPWW 03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.24%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 71.02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                     PHASE 2C CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LIFE TIME PHASE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         69.50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           71.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EX 1.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              71.08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              71.12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   71.33




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      71.33




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     71.33




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            71.33




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P
                                                                                                                                                                                       0.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.00%                                                  0.48%                                0.48%                                       0.48%                                                                   1.04%                                                                                                                                                                   0.00%                                                                                0.00%                                                                                      0.00%                                                                                            0.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NE 1/4 & SE 1/4 OF SEC. 9 & NW 1/4 & SW 1/4 OF SEC. 10, T2S, R1W, SLB&M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1                                                                                                                                                                                 0    %                                         FL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TR


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LO
                                           ////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             71
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               / /0/ / / / / / / / / /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /PW/ / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / /
                                                                     69.50
                                                                     TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TO .96                                                                                  7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX 1.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         [ 437
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  71.02

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  71.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C                                                                                    TB 3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          c




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PHASE 2C - RETAIL PADS 3, 4 & 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX GRATE: 4371.03




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX 12" IE IN: 4366.94 (N)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PPWW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HOLLADAY HILLS - BLOCK H-I-J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4371
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX 12" IE IN: 4366.94 (E)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0%              LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX 12" IE OUT: 4366.94 (SW)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXISTING CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / /4/ 3/ 7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AND GUTTER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PPWW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4835 SOUTH HIGHLAND DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX 1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TB 7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PW
        SEE SHEET C2.11 FOR CONTINUATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      c                                                                                                                  PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PPWW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWR                                                                                               PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R
MATCH LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.81%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PPWW %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HOLLADAY CITY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          c
                                                                                                            LOT 5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RE
                                                                                                          42,833 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14,680 SQFT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PPWW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -L
                                                                                                          0.98 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.34 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.52%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.65%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                71




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TO .51




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LO
                                                                                           RETAIL PAD 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RETAIL PAD 5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PW
                                                                                                            FFE: 4369.50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FFE: 4371.33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONCRETE SIDEWALK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          71                                                    2.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TO .38




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0    %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (CONSTRUCTED WITH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LIFE TIME PHASE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      71                                                                                                                                                                                                          G1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     [ 43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TO .33                                                                                                                                                                                                            .35




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       71 ]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.39%                                                                                                EX 1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PPWW
                                                                                                            PHASE 2C RETAIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PHASE 2C RETAIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              //                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TB 5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.86%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    71




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /                                                                                        TO .18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              71.33                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX 1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.9     C                                                                                    0.52%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2%                                                                                                                                           TB 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C                        G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX GRATE: 4370.30                                                   4 17.5 LF @ 1.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IE: 4367.52 3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PPWW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NEW 6" IE IN: 4367.34 (SE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IE: 4367.57 5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX 12" IE IN: 4366.84 (NE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS
                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         [4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX 12" IE OUT: 4366.84 (S)                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /     //                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXISTING CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AND GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              37




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PPWW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.89%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.0 LF @ 1.00% 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EX SDMH TO BE REMOVED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /                                                                                     4.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WITH LIFE TIME PHASE                                                                                                           /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SDCB #101A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GIG                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX GRATE: 4370.34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 69.50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              70.16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX 12" IE OUT: 4367.21 (S)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IG I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        71.33




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               69.50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   70.16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         69.59




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             71.33


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         70.93
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EX 0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L




                                           ////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOC                                          ////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////// /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TB TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                   0.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3.99%                                                                                         0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              69.93




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              70.06




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       71
                                                                                                    2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GA
                                                                                                                                                   PHASE 2C CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TO .18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR                    PPWWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               69.36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C                                                                    1]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.94%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.94%


                                                                   0.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PHASE 2C CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                                                                                          37                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COMMON GRADING ABBREVIATIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  [4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PPW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                    PWR                       PWR                           PWR                      PWR                         PWR                      PWR                      PWR                      PWR                              PWR                            PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR                        PWR                            PWR                       PWR                           PWR                         PWR                                          PWR                                PWR                                                              PWR                                                                  PWR                                  PWR                        PWR                    PWR                    PWR                   PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                70.82
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              [ 43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                    PWR                       PWR                           PWR                      PWR                         PWR                      PWR                      PWR                      PWR                              PWR                            PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR                        PWR                            PWR                       PWR                           PWR                         PWR                                          PWR                                PWR                                                              PWR                                                                  PWR                                  PWR                        PWR                    PWR                    PWR                   PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9%


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SEE SHEET C0.01 FOR ADDITIONAL ABBREVIATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 69.92
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 69.29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               71.10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOC


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 71 ]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7.7%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                       [ 4369 ]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              69.82




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          69.90




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              69.92
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         69.35




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              69.69




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        71.10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4.01%                                                                                      0.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      - BFE                  BASEMENT FLOOR ELEVATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX 0.8
                          PWR                                           PWR                           PWR                      PWR                          PWR                          PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR                                                                                                                                                                 PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR                       PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR                                                                                                  PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  - BW                   FINISH GRADE AT BOTTOM OF WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TB 2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - EX or EXIST          EXISTING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW
                                                       LOW                                            LOW                                        LOW                                          LOW                                   LOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONCRETE SIDEWALK

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  - EOA                  EDGE OF ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (CONSTRUCTED WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.84%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5.87%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.91%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.88%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9.1%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - EOC                  EDGE OF CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4.9%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EX 0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LIFE TIME PHASE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW




                                             W-L                     W-L                            W-L                       W-L                     EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                       W-L     CURB W-L                                     W-L                     W-L                           W-L                              W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L                        W-L                            W-L                        W-L           W-L                                        W-L                                                    W-L                                W-L                                                                                       W-L                                                W-L                          W-L                         W-L                   W-L                    W-L                    W-L                       W-L                          W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TB 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - FFE                  FINISH FLOOR ELEVATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BLOCK G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW                                                                                                                                                                                          PW
                                                                                                                                                      AND GUTTER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - FG                   FINISH GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOW                                                                                                                          LOW                                                    LOW                                        LOW                                 LOW                                  LOW                                              LOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          - FL                   FLOW LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               145,709 SQFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX TBC M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - GB                   GRADE BREAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              70.65 COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.35 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FO R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                70.68
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX TBC


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX TBC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EX TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EX TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EX TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX TBC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD

                                                                                                                                                                     COMM                       COMM                         COMM                          COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - HP                   HIGH POINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                           COMM                             COMM                       COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           69.81




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70.31




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                70.51




                                             COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 69.26




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              69.43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        69.93
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          69.19




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             69.85




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     69.95




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COMM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SDCB #68B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             - LP                   LOW POINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MM
                                                         PWR                         PWR                           PWR                       PWR                       PWR                       PWR                       PWR                     PWR                            PWR                               PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR                         PWR                                PWR                    PWR                              PWR                                 PWR                                  PWR                              PWR                                                                                                      PWR                                  PWR                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING CURB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CO
                                                       PWR                         PWR                           PWR                       PWR                       PWR                       PWR                       PWR                     PWR                            PWR                               PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR                       PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EX GRATE: 4369.48                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - NG                   NATURAL GROUND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COMM    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -L                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AND GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                           FO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX 12" IE IN: 4366.75 (N)                                                                           CO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - SDCB                 STORM DRAIN CATCH BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS




                                                                                                FO                                    FO                                     FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                             FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FO                                           FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FO                                   FO                                                                                                          COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EX 12" IE OUT: 4366.75 (SW)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - SDCO                 STORM DRAIN CLEANOUT BOX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FO                                    FO                                             FO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - SDDB                 STORM DRAIN DRAIN BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMM                                                                                                                                  M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - SDMH                 STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS                            SS                    SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS                             SS                                                           SS                                                                                                                                                                  SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CO
                                                                                                                                                                                  SS                   SS                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                              SS                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                 SS                     SS                           SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - TBC                  TOP BACK OF CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - TOA                  TOP OF ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RODEO WAY DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          - TOC                  TOP OF CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FO                                              -L                                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W                                        PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               - TOG                  TOP OF GRATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD                                                                                                     SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - TOW                  TOP OF WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  - TW                   FINISH GRADE AT TOP OF WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - WW                   WATERWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FO PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GA



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                               SD                       SD                       SD                       SD                     SD                       SD                      SD                            SD                               SD                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR




                                            SD                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS                         GAS                   GAS                     GAS                 GAS                                                                                                                        SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EBE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR                     PWR                 PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R                                              -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SCOPE LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PW                     GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR                   PWR                  PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR                   PWR                  PWR                    PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR                                                                                                                                                        SD                                                                                                                                          AS                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G                                                        PWWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR                                               S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M                          -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FO
                                              GAS                       GAS                           GAS                      GAS                          GAS                        GAS                    GAS                     GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PWWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOW                    AREA WITHIN LIMIT OF WORK LINE PART OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R                                                                                                                                                                                               R                                                                                                              S                                                                                        SD                                                            P                                                                                                       PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PPWWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GA                                                     GA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THIS PERMIT. AREA OUTSIDE OF LIMIT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOW                    WORK LINE EXCLUDED FROM THIS PERMIT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -L                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MM                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                 PWR
                                                 PWR                       PWR
                                                                           PWR                         PWR
                                                                                                       PWR                         PWR
                                                                                                                                   PWR                       PWR
                                                                                                                                                             PWR                        PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR                   PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR                                                                                  GA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R               PW                                                                                                                                               PWWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PPWWRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R                                                                                                                                            P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PPWWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD          PW        FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD                                                                                                                             -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DOWNTOWN LANE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS                                                                           R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PW

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR                        PWR                           PWR                         PWR                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PPWWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PPWWRG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROJECT BENCHMARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR                        PWR                           PWR                         PWR                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT NO: 23301.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD                                                                                                                                                                 MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE LOCATED AT THE INTERSECTION OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RODEO WAY DRIVE AND AMY VIEW LANE.                                            DESIGNED BY: JHF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W-L


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BENCHMARK ELEVATION: 4365.89'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PPWWRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS                                                                              FO R                 MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CHECKED BY: TJD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GA                                                                  SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW                    CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DATE:                     DEC 10, 2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EBEB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EBEB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PPWW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW                    OM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NOTICE!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FO                                                          -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS




                                                                                                                        BLOCK E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BLOCK F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G AS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GRADING AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RR                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                         168,390 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    198,133 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW                       MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CO                                 -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RESPONSIBLE FOR THE LOCATION,
                                                                                                                          3.86 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4.54 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DRAINAGE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G AS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROTECTION, AND RESTORATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OF ALL BURIED OR ABOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G AS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GROUND UTILITIES, SHOWN OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C2.12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RR                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOT SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FO PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OHW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BLOCK K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         300,062 SQFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6.89 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                         P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                        E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW



                                                                                                                                                      NC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS
                                                                                                                                                  FE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OHW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OH                                                                                                                         W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHEET C2.13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS                                                                               W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G                                                                          G                                                          G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W                                                                                              S                                                            W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GASS
                                                                                                                                                                   OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W                                              W                                                                          W                                     W                                                                  W                                                                     W                                                          W                                           W                                         W                                 W                                     W                                                                          W                                                                      W                                    W                                                                                    W                                                                              W                                                          G                                                                                                                                                       ORY                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SUNSET DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LAN             SS G                                                                                                           W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AS
                                                        G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OH
                                                      IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                    NC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS                                                                                                           W-L
                                               FE




                                                                                                                           WR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                 K
                                               IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L
                                                                                                                          RP
                                            NL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS
                                         AI




                                                                                                                      PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P
                                       CH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                 W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OH
                                                                                                              OH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD                                             SD                                                                              SD                                    SD                                                                                                                          SD                                                              SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD                                                                        SD                                           SD                                                                             SD                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS                                       GAS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                       WR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P                                                P                                                P                                                    P                                        P                                                             P               LOW                                                    P             LOW                                             P      LOW                               P                                             P                                  P                                  P                                                                   P                                                                       P                                         P                                                                              P                                                             P                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                     RP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OH
                                                                                                   PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DR W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOW
                                                                                  OH
                                                                                     W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMM                                                             SS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONCRETE BRIDGE. SEE ARCHITECTURAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IVE
                OH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COMM
                  W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARCEL A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AND STRUCTURAL PLANS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COMM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OFESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OH
                                                                                      WR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IRIRRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13,980 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PP
                                                                                    RP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P
                                                                                  PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD                                                                             SD                                                                    SD                                                                                           G                                                             G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.32 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12/15/25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L I CENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W                                                                               W                                                           W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W                                       SD
                       PW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       F                                                                                F                                                              F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               No. 280090
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ET
                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                INEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONCRETE RETAINING WALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VERTI-BLOCK RETAINING WALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VERTI-BLOCK RETAINING WALL
                                                                   R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THEODORE J.
                      FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                 PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 2A)                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N
                                                                   TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DIDAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BLOCK L PUD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OHW
                 GA                                                PW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TR
                   S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D
                                                                 PW R                                                                                                                                                                                                   S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 1                                                                                                                                                 AH
                                                                   R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OF UT
                                                             FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          23,843 SQFT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                       G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOW
                                            GA                                             PPWWR
                                              S                                                R
                                                                                         PW
                                                                                            R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VERTI-BLOCK RETAINING WALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.54 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 1)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                               PWR                                                                               S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G
                                                                                                   FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                         GA
                                                                              S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               F
                                                                                                                                     PWR                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                    PP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EL
                                                                                                                 PW
                                                                                                                                                                                    IRIRRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                   WR
                                                                                                                                                                    R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                  PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EL
                                                                                                    GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR
                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  58,277 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
                                                                                                                               CM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                     GA




                                                                                                                                       PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       STORM DRAIN LINE
                                                                                                                                            R              SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.34 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (CONSTRUCTED WITH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PW
                                                                                                                                                      FO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LIFE TIME PHASE)
                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                  WR
                                                                                                                               GA




                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                PPW




                                                                                                                                                                  PW
                                                                                                                                       S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                G
                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 3                                                                                                                                                                                       PARKING STRUCTURE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LIFE TIME                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 6
                                                                                                                                                           W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW
                                                                                                                                            PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS
                                                                                                                                                                  CM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                       TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LEVEL 3: 4388.58                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FFE 4374.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     58,277 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 174,585 SQFT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G
                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                       GAS




                                                                                                                                           FO
                                                                                                                                                                      RR
                                                                                                                                                                    PW
                                                                                                                                                                   PW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LEVEL 2: 4377.83                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.34 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.01 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LEVEL 1: 4366.50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PHASE 2B - PARKING STRUCTURE & INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PPWW
                                                                                                                                        RR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                       PW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOW
                                                                                                                                      PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW
                                                                                                                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARKING STALLS: 345                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LIFE TIME
                                                                                                                                                                                              TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S                                                                                                                                                                                      PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                            PFWOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (CONSTRUCTED WITH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IRIRRP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PHASE 2 PARKING LOT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LIFE TIME PHASE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                    SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       67,010 SQFT
                                                                                                                                                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (CONSTRUCTED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PHASE 2B PARKING STRUCTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.54 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                           W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WITH TEMP 2 PHASE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AS
                                                                                                                                                           CHA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G
                                                                                                                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD                                                                                                                                                                                                     TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW W-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        STORM DRAIN LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BLOCK L PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TR
                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                 NNI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (CONSTRUCTED WITH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                             PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHEET C2.13
                                                                                                                                                            GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EX STORM DRAIN LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MM
                                                                                                                                                                                         FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LIFE TIME PHASE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          195,972 SQFT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PHASE 1 PARKING LOT                                                                                                          (INSTALLED WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                 W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R L
                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW W-
                                                                                                                                                           SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RR                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                   N VI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.50 ACRES W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PPWW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PREVIOUS PHASE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PPWW                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHEET C2.11                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHEET C2.12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WITH TEMP 1 PHASE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NE 1/4 & SE 1/4 OF SEC. 9 & NW 1/4 & SW 1/4 OF SEC. 10, T2S, R1W, SLB&M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GA
                                                                                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MM
                                                                                                                                                                       STA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CO
                                                                                                                                                                       GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW W-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EEMCB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOW[ 4366 ]                                 LOW                                 LOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                   FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VERTI-BLOCK RETAINING WALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MM
                                                                                                                                                                                    SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HOLLADAY HILLS - BLOCK H-I-J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 1)                                                                                                                         SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                              GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NEW STORM DRAIN LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW
                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        STORM DRAIN LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NEW STORM DRAIN LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EX STORM DRAIN LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (SEE SHEET C2.12)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (CONSTRUCTED WITH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         [ 4366 ]                                                                                                                                   (SEE SHEET C2.12)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4835 SOUTH HIGHLAND DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (INSTALLED WITH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           c




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LIFE TIME PHASE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PREVIOUS PHASE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       [ 4366 ]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                               WR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONTRACTOR TO COORDINATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            [ 43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NEW STORM DRAIN LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                         W-L P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWS
                                                                                                                                                                                    SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WITH SALT LAKE COUNTY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                66 ]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PHASE 2B CONSTRUCTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PHASE 2B CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (SEE SHEET C2.12)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NEW STORM DRAIN LINE
                                                                                                    SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                [4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             [ 4364




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EX STORM DRAIN LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SURVEYOR PRIOR TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     36                                                                  W                                          W                                         W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONCRETE DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PW
                                          BLOCK B SUBD.                                                                                                                                                               (INSTALLED WITH                                                                                                                             LO     W(SEE SHEET C2.11)                                                                             5]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S                                                          CONSTRUCTION TO DOCUMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (CONSTRUCTED WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW                                                       LOW                                      LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G                                                            G                                           G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PREVIOUS PHASE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P                                                                                                                                                         c LIFE TIME PHASE)                   c                                                                                                         AND/OR RELOCATE EXISTING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                     SD
                                                                                  -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P                                                                           P                                       P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ///////////////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW                                             LOW                                     LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SECTION CORNER
                                                                    SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ///////////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HOLLADAY CITY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PW W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW             SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -L
                                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          [4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW
                                                                        SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     //////////////////////////////////////////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NEW STORM DRAIN LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             //////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 //////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (SEE SHEET C2.11)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RGA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G 2B CONSTRUCTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         // /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G
                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ///////////////////////////////////////////                                                                                                                                                                    ////////////////////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     / /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          / / / / / / / / / / / / //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NEW STORM DRAIN LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOT 7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (SEE SHEET C2.11)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                // /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FUTURE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FUTURE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     //////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14,680 SQFT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.34 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  // /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 2                                                        RETAIL PAD 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RETAIL PAD 3                                                                       LOT 5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           // /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FUTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ///////////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              // /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PHASE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                75,600 SQFT                                                                   FFE: 4366.25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FFE: 4367.08                                                           42,833 SQFT



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RETAIL PAD 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RETAIL PAD 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         / /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.74 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.98 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PHASE 3 RETAIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          // /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FFE: 4369.50                                                                                                                                                                                       FFE: 4371.33




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (TO BE CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /// /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WITH PHASE 3)                                                                                                                                   66                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PHASE 2C RETAIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PHASE 2C RETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FUTURE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            c




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                [ 43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (TO BE CONSTRUCTED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (TO BE CONSTRUCTED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOW


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WITH PHASE 2C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RETAIL PAD 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WITH PHASE 2C)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ////////////////////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W IG IGIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FFE: 4364.50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR                     PWR                      PWR                    PWR                PWR                 PWR                      PWR                        PWR                                               PWR                                   PWR                                        PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /// /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR        IG IG                             PWR                                        PWR                                   PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR                                            PWR                                                 PWR                                                                                                                                                      PWR                                                                                        PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PHASE 3 RETAIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWPW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (TO BE CONSTRUCTED                                                                                                                                                                                                 W-L                   W-L                                                            W-L                                                                  W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IG                                      W-L                      W-L                    W-L                       W-L                      W-L                     W-L                 W-L                   W-L                      W-L                                                  W-L                                                               W-L                          W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      // /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WITH PHASE 3)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COMM                        COMM                  COMM                   COMM                   COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMM                              COMM                       COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W-L                                                                                        COMM                                                                                                                                                              FO                             PWR                       PWR                        PWR                PWR                  PWR                  PWR                  PWR                             COMM                    PWR                                   PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RODEO WAY DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR                       PWR                        PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FO                                                                  FOPWR                  PWR                  PWR                  PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             / /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SSMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FO                                                             FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS                       SS                   SS                     SS                       SS                SS                   SS                 SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    / /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS                                                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PFW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       // /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L                   PW COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        // /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     // /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS                       GAS                                          GAS                                         GAS                                  GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CHA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W-L                        PWOMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD                    SD                                           SD                                      SD                                  SD                                                         SD                      SD                     SD                          SD                SD               SD                  SD                   SD                  SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS                                                                GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT BENCHMARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            // /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BLOCK G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GA               SD                                                                   EB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PW S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     //          /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R              W-L                   R                                                              SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PRW                                                  PPW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS                      GAS                    GAS                       GAS                      GAS               GAS                  GAS                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW                                    PW M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR                                                                                                                                                   PW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NNI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      / /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     145,709 SQFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR                         PWR                      PWR                       PWR               PWR                   PWR                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MM       -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /// /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                // /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W-L                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.35 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR                                                                                                                                                                                  SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CO M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N VI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHEET C2.11                                                        W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHEET C2.12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P WR                                       PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EBEB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EBEB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR                                                MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CO                                                                        PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W                                          GAS          SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CO FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  STA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GASSS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PIGW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IG IG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IG IG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COM                                             SD                            PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PPW                                                                      W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD                         PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L                                            COMSM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CO
                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TF
                                                                                  ES EY NT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                              IN ILL OPM ES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M            PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COM
                                                                                US TH E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                            OR ST L IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR
                                                                          G IF VE L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GASSTUB
                                                                        IN N DE RM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GA                          SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EL
                                                                     AM OW ST TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DOWNTOWN LANE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR
                                                                   RE KN PA S S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FIB
                                                                     UN OM IOU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IG IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O
                                                                       FR EV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L
                                                                          PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M                                                                                                           PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COM
                                               SD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AMY VIEW LANE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW                                                                   CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR                                  COM                                                           GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS                                 -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L                                                                                          SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                              PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R




                                                                                                                                                                                                             COM                                                             GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW
           SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                             PW R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L




                                                                                                                                                                            W-L                                                                    PWPWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR
                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                             COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      M
                                                                                                                                                                              PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS                 CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS




                                                                                                                                            W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS




                                                                                                                PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS                                                    PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L




                                                                                                                                               M
                                                                                                                                           COM R                                 SS                                                                                       PW R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PW                                  SD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .
                                                                                                               W-L                            PW                                                                                                                            R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BLOCK D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BLOCK E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BLOCK F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PPW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                   PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NT
                                                                                                                M                                     SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FO




                                                                                                             COM PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L




                                                                                  W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                158,423 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             168,390 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         198,133 SQFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                               PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                       GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S




                                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS




                                                                        COM PWR                                                                                                            PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.64 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.86 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4.54 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                              W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS




                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S                                 SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GA
                                                                                           SS                             GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW
                                     COM
                                        M           PWR                                                                                                     PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                  TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR
            W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                      SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M             -L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS
                                                             SS                            GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                PWR                                                                                                            PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS
       M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G                  SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW
   C OM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR
                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                        GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WORMM




                                                                                              PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L




                       GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                 PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GGAA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RR
                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PPWW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                              GENERAL NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REVISIONS
SITE GRADING SHALL BE PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS AND THE                                                                                                                                                                               ALL ELEVATIONS SHOWN AT TOP AND BOTTOM OF WALL(S), IF ANY, ARE ELEVATIONS AT FINISH GRADE,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NO
RECOMMENDATIONS SET FORTH IN THE SOILS REPORT (IF AVAILABLE). THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE                                                                                                                                                                                   UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
RESPONSIBLE FOR REMOVING AND REPLACING ALL SOFT, YIELDING OR UNSUITABLE MATERIALS AND
REPLACING WITH SUITABLE MATERIALS AS SPECIFIED IN THE SOILS REPORT. ALL EXCAVATED OR FILLED
AREAS SHALL BE COMPACTED TO 95% OF MODIFIED PROCTOR MAXIMUM DENSITY PER ASTM TEST D-1557
EXCEPT UNDER BUILDING FOUNDATION WHERE IT SHALL BE 98% MIN. OF MAXIMUM DENSITY. MOISTURE
CONTENT AT TIME OF PLACEMENT SHALL NOT EXCEED 2% ABOVE NOR 3% BELOW OPTIMUM. CONTRACTOR
SHALL SUBMIT A COMPACTION REPORT PREPARED BY A QUALIFIED REGISTERED SOILS ENGINEER,
VERIFYING THAT ALL FILLED AREAS AND SUBGRADE AREAS WITHIN THE BUILDING PAD AREA AND AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SCALE: 1" = 40'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
TO BE PAVED, HAVE BEEN COMPACTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE PLANS & SPECS AND THE
RECOMMENDATIONS SET FORTH IN THE SOILS REPORT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
THE CONTRACTOR IS TO USE BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES FOR PROVIDING EROSION CONTROL FOR
CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT. SPECIFIC DETAILS SHOWN ON SHEET C2.30 SHALL BE USED IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0                20'                       40'                                           80'                                 120'
COMBINATION WITH OTHER ACCEPTED LOCAL PRACTICES.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
EXISTING UNDERGROUND UTILITIES AND IMPROVEMENTS ARE SHOWN IN THEIR APPROXIMATE LOCATIONS
BASED UPON RECORD INFORMATION AVAILABLE AT THE TIME OF PREPARATION OF PLANS. LOCATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT BENCHMARK                                                                                                                                      PROJECT NO: 23301.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE LOCATED AT THE INTERSECTION OF
MAY NOT HAVE BEEN VERIFIED IN THE FIELD AND NO GUARANTEE IS MADE AS TO ACCURACY OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RODEO WAY DRIVE AND AMY VIEW LANE.                                                                                                                                    DESIGNED BY: JHF
COMPLETENESS OF THE INFORMATION SHOWN. IT SHALL BE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BENCHMARK ELEVATION: 4365.89'
DETERMINE THE EXISTENCE AND LOCATION OF THOSE UTILITIES SHOWN ON THESE PLANS OR INDICATED
IN THE FIELD BY LOCATING SERVICES. ANY ADDITIONAL COSTS INCURRED AS A RESULT OF CONTRACTOR'S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHECKED BY: TJD
FAILURE TO VERIFY LOCATIONS OF EXISTING UTILITIES PRIOR TO BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION IN THEIR
VICINITY SHALL BE BORNE BY THE CONTRACTOR AND ASSUMED INCLUDED IN THE CONTRACT.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DATE:                      DEC 10, 2025
CONTRACTOR TO FIELD VERIFY BOTH THE VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL LOCATION OF ALL EXISTING
UTILITIES PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTING ANY NEW UTILITY LINE OR STRUCTURE. CONTRACTOR TO REPORT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NOTICE!
ANY DESIGN DISCREPANCIES IN HORIZONTAL OR VERTICAL LOCATIONS TO ENGINEER. NO ADDITIONAL
COMPENSATION SHALL BE PAID TO THE CONTRACTOR FOR DAMAGE AND/OR REPAIR TO THESE FACILITIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SCOPE LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OVERALL
CAUSED BY HIS WORK FORCE, OR FOR ANY WORK HAVING TO BE DONE DUE TO FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH
THESE REQUIREMENTS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RESPONSIBLE FOR THE LOCATION,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROTECTION, AND RESTORATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GRADING &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DRAINAGE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AREA WITHIN LIMIT OF WORK LINE PART OF
CONTRACTOR MUST START AT LOW END OF ALL NEW GRAVITY UTILITY LINES AND WORK UPSTREAM. ALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 THIS PERMIT. AREA OUTSIDE OF LIMIT OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OF ALL BURIED OR ABOVE
PROPOSED CONNECTIONS TO EXISTING UTILITY LINES OR STRUCTURES ARE TO BE FIELD VERIFIED FOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOW                                                     WORK LINE EXCLUDED FROM THIS PERMIT.                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GROUND UTILITIES, SHOWN OR



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C2.00
BOTH VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL LOCATION, PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTING ANY NEW UTILITY LINE OR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NOT SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
STRUCTURE. NO ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION SHALL BE PAID TO THE CONTRACTOR FOR ANY WORK
HAVING TO BE DONE DUE TO FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THESE REQUIREMENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SUNSET DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SCALE: 1" = 20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING DRIVE APPROACH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (INSTALLED WITH PREVIOUS PHASE)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0          10'     20'                     40'             60'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOW                                                                                    LOW                                         LOW                                     LOW                                                                        LOW                 LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOW              LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MATCH EXISTING DRIVE APPROACH                              CONCRETE BRIDGE. SEE ARCHITECTURAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AND STRUCTURAL PLANS
                                                                                      E
                                                                               RIV
                                                                             D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW
                                                                         T
                                                             NSE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW
                                                          SU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DUMPSTER ENCLOSURE (TO BE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONCRETE RETAINING WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 2A)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VERTI-BLOCK RETAINING WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GENERAL NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ALL DIMENSIONS ARE TO THE FACE OF CURB, UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 3)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SEE ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SEE LANDSCAPE PLANS FOR IRRIGATION AND PLANTING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ALL WORK TO COMPLY WITH GOVERNING AGENCY'S STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ALL IMPROVEMENTS MUST COMPLY WITH ADA STANDARDS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KEYED NOTES:                                                                                                                       OFESS IONAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.00'                                                     PROVIDE, INSTALL AND/OR CONSTRUCT THE FOLLOWING PER THE SPECIFICATIONS GIVEN OR                                                  PR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REFERENCED AND THE DETAILS NOTED AND AS SHOWN ON THE CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS:                                                         12/15/25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L I CENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VERTI-BLOCK RETAINING WALL                                                                                                                                                       No. 280090




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1                ASPHALT PAVEMENT WITH GRANULAR BASE PER DETAIL 'D1', SHEET C5.01.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 1)                                                                                                                                                  THEODORE J.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VEHICULAR CONCRETE PAVEMENT WITH GRANULAR BASE PER DETAIL 'E1', SHEET                                       DIDAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C5.01. REFER TO LANDSCAPE PLANS FOR COLOR, FINISH AND PATTERNING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     STAMPED AND COLORED VEHICULAR CONCRETE PAVEMENT WITH GRANULAR BASE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PER DETAIL 'E1', SHEET C5.01. REFER TO LANDSCAPE PLANS FOR COLOR, FINISH AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OF UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PATTERNING.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4                CONCRETE VEHICULAR RAMP. SEE DETAIL 'C1', SHEET C5.01.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5                ASPHALT T-PATCH, PER APWA PLANS NO. 255.1 & 255.2 (2012 VERSION), SHEET C5.02.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4" THICK - STANDARD GREY, APWA CONCRETE SIDEWALK, PER APWA PLAN NO. 231,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SHEET C5.02.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6" THICK - STANDARD GREY, APWA CONCRETE SIDEWALK, PER APWA PLAN NO. 231,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SHEET C5.02.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8    24" RELEASE CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER, PER DETAIL 'E4', SHEET C5.01.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9    24" CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER, PER DETAIL 'E3', SHEET C5.01.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 4                                                                                                                                                         LOT 6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PHASE 2B - PARKING STRUCTURE & INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10   CONCRETE CURB WALL. SEE DETAIL 'E2', SHEET C5.01.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            58,277 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            58,277 SQFT                                                                                                                                                  174,585 SQFT        11   36" WIDE CONCRETE WATERWAY. SEE DETAIL 'E5', SHEET C5.01.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.34 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.34 ACRES                                                                                                                                                    4.01 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12   MATCH EXISTING CONCRETE WATERWAY.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PHASE 2 PARKING LOT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13   MATCH EXISTING ASPHALT PAVEMENT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (CONSTRUCTED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WITH TEMP 1 PHASE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PARKING STRUCTURE                                                                                                                                                          LIFE TIME              14   TAPER BACK OF CURB FOR FUTURE ADA RAMP AND/OR WALK TRANSITION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LEVEL 3: 4388.58                                                                                                        2.00'                                    FFE 4374.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LEVEL 2: 4377.83                                                                                                                                                                        ADA RAMP WITH DETECTABLE WARNING SURFACE. SEE APWA PLAN NO. 235.1, FOR RAMP DETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LEVEL 1: 4366.50                                                                                                                                                                   15
                                                                                                                     LOT 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AND APWA PLAN NO. 238 FOR DETECTABLE WARNING SURFACE DETAIL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NE 1/4 & SE 1/4 OF SEC. 9 & NW 1/4 & SW 1/4 OF SEC. 10, T2S, R1W, SLB&M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARKING STALLS: 345
                                                                                                                 67,010 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16   SAWCUT EXISTING ASPHALT PAVEMENT AND MATCH.
                                                                                                                 1.54 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ACCESSIBLE ROUTE WITH MAXIMUM 1:48 CROSS-SLOPE AND MAXIMUM 1:20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RUNNING-SLOPE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HOLLADAY HILLS - BLOCK H-I-J
                                                                                                           PHASE 1 PARKING LOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PHASE 2B PARKING STRUCTURE
                                                                                                              (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                            WITH TEMP 1 PHASE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4835 SOUTH HIGHLAND DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HOLLADAY CITY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VERTI-BLOCK RETAINING WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 1)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXISTING ASPHALT PAVEMENT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16                                                                          16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOW                       LOW                    LOW                 LOW               LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LO W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                11                                   12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONCRETE SIDEWALK (CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WITH LIFE TIME PHASE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6                                                                                                                                  6                                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                                                           12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               15                                                                                                         10                                                                10                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9                                                                             9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.00'                                                                                                                         72.00'                                                                                              10.00'                                                             111.78'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 49.50'




                                                                                                                                                                          16
                                                                                                                                                                                            LOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4                                                                                                                                                 CONCRETE DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               24.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         24.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2                                                                                              (CONSTRUCTED WITH
                                                                             EXISTING ASPHALT PAVEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LIFE TIME PHASE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           32.00'
                                                                                                                                                              LOW                                                                          1                                                                                                                                                                                             1                                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10.00'                                                             111.78'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9
                                                                                                                                 LOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOW                                          LOW                     LOW                    LOW               LOW                       LOW
                                                                                            5                                                                                                                                R120.0'                                                                                                                                                          153.66'                                                                           10.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R28.0'
         LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////                                                    8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 //////////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                    39.5




                                                                                                     LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    //////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOW                           LOW                                                  LOW                   LOW                      LOW                  LOW                LOW                  LOW                                                                                                     R20.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                         LOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LO                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONCRETE SIDEWALK (TO BE
                                                                                                                                                        0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9                                                                                  W                                                                                         10                                                                                                            CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 2C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8
               LOW                                                   LOW
                                                       16                                                                                                                                            LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
                                              LOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /////////////////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ////////////////////////////////////////////////////
                                                                                       16                                                                                                                                            //                                                                                                                                                                              CONCRETE SIDEWALK (TO BE                                                                                                                                                24.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ///




                                       LO W
                                                                                                                                                                      LOW                                                  ///                                                                                                                                                                                       INSTALLED WITH PHASE 3)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CONCRETE SIDEWALK (TO BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW
                                                                1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              INSTALLED WITH PHASE 2C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                           ///
                                                                                                                                        LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ///
                                                                                                                 .60'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ////////////////////////////////////////////
                           EXISTING DRIVE APPROACH                                                           134
                                                                                                                                                                                            ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ///




                                                                                                                                                                                     //
                                                                                                                                                                8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FUTURE
                                                                                      13.5
                                                    LOW




                           (CONSTRUCTED WITH TEMP 1 PHASE)                                                                                                                     ///                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONCRETE SIDEWALK (TO BE
                                                                                       0'




                                                                                                                                                              // / ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 2C)
                                                                                                           LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RETAIL PAD 3
                                                                                                                                                             /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                        ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FFE: 4367.08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FUTURE
                                                                                                                                                  ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ////////////
                                                                                                                                            ///
                                                                             LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /




                                                                                                                                      ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         / ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RETAIL PAD 2
                                                                                                                                ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ///////////////////////////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW



                                                                                                                     // ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ////////////////////////////////
                                        W




                                                                                                                        /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   43.23'
                                                                                                                 /
                                       LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FFE: 4366.25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PHASE 2C RETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FUTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               46.39'




     5                                                                                                                CONCRETE SIDEWALK (TO BE
                                                    LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /




                                                                                                           ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (TO BE CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /




                                   '
                                                                                                //
                                                                                                                      CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 7)
                                                                                                      //
                               6.98                                      8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ///




                                                                                ///
                                                                                      ///                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 2                                                                                                                  CONCRETE SIDEWALK (TO BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WITH PHASE 2C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 5                                RETAIL PAD 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONCRETE SIDEWALK (TO BE                                                                    75,600 SQFT                                                                                                              CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 3)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     42,833 SQFT                                  FFE: 4369.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /




                               LOW
                                                                          ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ///




                                                                    //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONSTRUCTED WITH FUTURE PHASE)
                                                             ///                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.74 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.98 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONCRETE SIDEWALK (TO BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       //




                                                    // ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW

16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           24.00'                                                   CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 2C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PHASE 2C RETAIL
                                                    ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PHASE 3 RETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (TO BE CONSTRUCTED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (TO BE CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WITH PHASE 2C)
                                                      ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WITH PHASE 3)                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8
                                                          ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              / //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         18.35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  18.35




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                          ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.96'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOW




                                                                                                                                                          FUTURE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14
                                                             ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.91'




                                                                                                                                                        RETAIL PAD 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ///
                                                                ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14
                                                                                                                                                                    FFE: 4364.50
         EXISTING CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCOPE LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /
                                                                    ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MATCH EXISTING DRIVE APPROACH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ///




         AND GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12.00'
                                                                     /// /




                                                                                                                                                                PHASE 3 RETAIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONCRETE SIDEWALK (TO BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          //




                                                                                                                                                             (TO BE CONSTRUCTED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOW                  AREA WITHIN LIMIT OF WORK LINE PART OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOW                                             LOW
               CHA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 6)
                                                                         ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ///




                                                                                                                                                                 WITH PHASE 3)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THIS PERMIT. AREA OUTSIDE OF LIMIT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONCRETE SIDEWALK (TO BE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOW                  WORK LINE EXCLUDED FROM THIS PERMIT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /
                                                                          ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXISTING CURB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING CURB
                NNI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 3)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           // ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DATE
                                                                             ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AND GUTTER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AND GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ///                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXISTING DRIVE APPROACH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                 N VI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (CONSTRUCTED WITH TEMP 1 PHASE)
                                                                                ///




                                                                    CONCRETE SIDEWALK (TO BE                                                                                                                                                                             /      //
                                                                    CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 3)                                                                                                                                                                  //    ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ///
                                                                                 //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REV
                     STA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           //                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RODEO WAY DRIVE
                                                                                   ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ///                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT BENCHMARK
                                                                                      /// /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROJECT BENCHMARK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROJECT NO: 23301.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                /// ///                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE LOCATED AT THE INTERSECTION OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ///                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RODEO WAY DRIVE AND AMY VIEW LANE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /




                                                                                                                                                                                               //     ///                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DESIGNED BY: JHF
                                                                                            ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BENCHMARK ELEVATION: 4365.89'
                                                                                                                                                                                           ///
                                                                                                                                                                                     ///                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CHECKED BY: TJD
                                                                                                // //




                                                                                                                                                                     //   / ///                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DATE:                      DEC 10, 2025
                                                                                                                                                                               /




                                                                                                                                                              ///
                                                                                                      /




                                                                                                                                                    /   //
                                                                                                                                              ///
                                                                                                     ///




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AMY VIEW LANE




                                                                                                                                         //
                                                                                                                                     ///                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NOTICE!
                                                                                                          ///




                                                                                                                           //   //
                                                                                                                     ///                                                                                    CONCRETE SIDEWALK (TO BE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CIVIL SITE PLAN
                                                                                                          ///




                                                                                                           ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONSTRUCTED WITH PHASE 3)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE LOCATION,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    YD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROTECTION, AND RESTORATION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         O WA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OF ALL BURIED OR ABOVE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GROUND UTILITIES, SHOWN OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C1.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NOT SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BLOCK D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BLOCK E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                158,423 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        168,390 SQFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.64 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.86 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BLOCK K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS             GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             299,124 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.87 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OH                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W                                                                                                                       GAS                                                      GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G                                                                                  G                                                        G                                                      G                                                 G                                        G                                                                                                                                                    2                                                                                                                                                                      GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   87
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8                                                                                                                                                                                  SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G                                                                                                 3                                                   OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W                                                                                                                                                                                 GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS
                                                                        W                                               W                                                     W                                         W                                                W                                              W                                                                                                                    W                                              W                                                            W                                                                               W                                            W                                                              W                                                                              W                                                        W                                                         W                                                   W                                            W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SCALE: 1" = 20'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MEM                                 GASS


                                                                                                                                                                SUNSET DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ORY                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S                                        S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0        10'        20'                     40'              60'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD                                           SD                                                             SD                                                                              SD                                          SD                                                      SD                                                                                     SD                                                     SD                                                                                          SD                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GENERAL NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W                                                                                                                                                                                                OH                                                                                                                      SITE GRADING SHALL BE PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS AND THE
                                       4 38                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8
                                           9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RECOMMENDATIONS SET FORTH IN THE SOILS REPORT (IF AVAILABLE). THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RESPONSIBLE FOR REMOVING AND REPLACING ALL SOFT, YIELDING OR UNSUITABLE MATERIALS AND REPLACING

                                                               P                                                    P                                                    P                                          P                                               P                                               P                                                                                                                    P                                            P                                                              P                                                                               P                                            P                                                          P                                                                                  P                                                       P                                                       P                                                 P                                        P                                                             SD                                                                   S  N             SE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W                                                                                  WITH SUITABLE MATERIALS AS SPECIFIED IN THE SOILS REPORT. ALL EXCAVATED OR FILLED AREAS SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COMPACTED TO 95% OF MODIFIED PROCTOR MAXIMUM DENSITY PER ASTM TEST D-1557 EXCEPT UNDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TRAIL TO BE CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4388                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TD                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BUILDING FOUNDATION WHERE IT SHALL BE 98% MIN. OF MAXIMUM DENSITY. MOISTURE CONTENT AT TIME OF
                                                                                                                                                                                  4385                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P                                                                                                                                    RI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OH                                           PLACEMENT SHALL NOT EXCEED 2% ABOVE NOR 3% BELOW OPTIMUM. CONTRACTOR SHALL SUBMIT A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WITH SUNSET DRIVE PHASE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W

                                                    4383                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4383                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COMPACTION REPORT PREPARED BY A QUALIFIED REGISTERED SOILS ENGINEER, VERIFYING THAT ALL FILLED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IRRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4382




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                              4382                                                                                           4382                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4383




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LO                                                                                                                        S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AREAS AND SUBGRADE AREAS WITHIN THE BUILDING PAD AREA AND AREAS TO BE PAVED, HAVE BEEN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COMPACTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE PLANS & SPECS AND THE RECOMMENDATIONS SET FORTH IN THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               438                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W                                                                                                                                                                                                        OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                              NEW RETAINING WALL                                                                                                                                                                                                              4380                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4379                                                                                                                                                                                 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G                                                                                                                                                                SOILS REPORT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              (CONSTRUCTED BY OTHERS)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4378                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
                                                                                             4376                                                                                                                                                                                                 IE: 4371.50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NEW RETAINING WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                              4375                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 THE CONTRACTOR IS TO USE BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES FOR PROVIDING EROSION CONTROL FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4377                                                                                                                                                 (CONSTRUCTED BY OTHERS)                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT. SPECIFIC DETAILS SHOWN ON SHEET C2.30 SHALL BE USED IN COMBINATION
                                                                                                                   LOW                                                LOW                                      LOW                                         LOW                                              LOW                                          LOW                                                                                                            LOW                                                        LOW                                                                              LOW                                         LOW                                         LOW                                                                LOW                                                                         LOW                                                 LOW                                              LOW                                        LOW                                                                                   [ 43                                                          W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BLOCK H3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4372                                              4372                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G 4373                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW                                               82                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WITH OTHER ACCEPTED LOCAL PRACTICES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5 8.1 LF @ 9.63%                                                                     SD                                                                             SD                                                                               SD                                                                 SD                                                                          SD                                              SD                                                                                                  G                                                                             G                                                      G                                                    G                                          G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12,430 SQFT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IRRR
                                                                                                                                                                             5 36.4 LF @ 2.10%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W 4373




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W                                                                  W                                                                             W                                                         W                                                                                               W 437                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.29 ACRES                                                          EXISTING UNDERGROUND UTILITIES AND IMPROVEMENTS ARE SHOWN IN THEIR APPROXIMATE LOCATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G
                                                                                                                                                 IE: 4369.98                                                                 SD                                                                                              SD                                                                                                               SD                                                                                                152.0 LF @ 0.50% 8                                                                                                                                         F                    IE: 4372.26                                     F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             [ 43                                                  LO                                                                                                                                                                                               3                                                                                                             BASED UPON RECORD INFORMATION AVAILABLE AT THE TIME OF PREPARATION OF PLANS. LOCATIONS MAY NOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4369F                                                                        F                                                    F                                          F
                                                                                       LOW




                           4365                                                                                                               4366                                                                                                                                                                                                 4367                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           80                                                        W                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4                                                                                                                 HAVE BEEN VERIFIED IN THE FIELD AND NO GUARANTEE IS MADE AS TO ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IE: 4370.72                                                               CONNECT TO 4" POOL DECK LINE                                                                                                                                                                                          SD                                                                                  SD                                             SD                                                 SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G         43                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INFORMATION SHOWN. IT SHALL BE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO DETERMINE THE EXISTENCE AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WITH 6"x4" INCREASER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     75                                                                                                                                         P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOCATION OF THOSE UTILITIES SHOWN ON THESE PLANS OR INDICATED IN THE FIELD BY LOCATING SERVICES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               5 3.0 LF @ 2.10%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IE: 4371.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4" POOL DECK LINE                                                                                                          CONTRACTOR TO COORDINATE WITH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ANY ADDITIONAL COSTS INCURRED AS A RESULT OF CONTRACTOR'S FAILURE TO VERIFY LOCATIONS OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5 10.3 LF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LO
                                                                                                                                                                      SD                                            11 IE: 4370.78                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXISTING UTILITIES PRIOR TO BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION IN THEIR VICINITY SHALL BE BORNE BY THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (SEE PLUMBING PLANS)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          @ 2.10%                                            (SEE PLUMBING PLANS)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STRUCTURAL AND PLUMBING DESIGN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FOR ROUTING OF STORM DRAIN LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONTRACTOR AND ASSUMED INCLUDED IN THE CONTRACT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4380
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4368                                                                                                                      THROUGH, UNDER OR OVER FOOTINGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4367
                                                                                                                                                                                          4366                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD                                                                                                                              PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R                            CONTRACTOR TO FIELD VERIFY BOTH THE VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL LOCATION OF ALL EXISTING UTILITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                 57.4 LF @ 2.00% 5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4369                                                                                                                                                                                                              4                                                                                   43
                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTING ANY NEW UTILITY LINE OR STRUCTURE. CONTRACTOR TO REPORT ANY DESIGN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W                3                                                                                    79
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4                                     72
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OFESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          [4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3                                                                                              37                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DISCREPANCIES IN HORIZONTAL OR VERTICAL LOCATIONS TO ENGINEER. NO ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION SHALL
                                4368




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0F                                                                                         8]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BE PAID TO THE CONTRACTOR FOR DAMAGE AND/OR REPAIR TO THESE FACILITIES CAUSED BY HIS WORK FORCE,                                 PR
                                                                                                                             SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OR FOR ANY WORK HAVING TO BE DONE DUE TO FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THESE REQUIREMENTS.                                                 01/22/26




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L I CENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            No. 280090




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONTRACTOR MUST START AT LOW END OF ALL NEW GRAVITY UTILITY LINES AND WORK UPSTREAM. ALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                INEER
                                                                                                                             GRATE: 4371.43 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    [4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TRAIL TO BE CONSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               THEODORE J.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROPOSED CONNECTIONS TO EXISTING UTILITY LINES OR STRUCTURES ARE TO BE FIELD VERIFIED FOR BOTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P
                                                                                                                             IE IN: 4368.83




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WITH SUNSET DRIVE PHASE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL LOCATION, PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTING ANY NEW UTILITY LINE OR STRUCTURE. NO                                 DIDAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ]
                                                                                                                             IE OUT: 4368.33                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6       9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     43                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    F                                        4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW                                                                ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION SHALL BE PAID TO THE CONTRACTOR FOR ANY WORK HAVING TO BE DONE DUE TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOW
                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4369                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THESE REQUIREMENTS.                                                                                 ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   43 72
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     37 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ATE      AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OF UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         [ 437
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ALL ELEVATIONS SHOWN AT TOP AND BOTTOM OF WALL(S), IF ANY, ARE ELEVATIONS AT FINISH GRADE, UNLESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                                         [ 4372 ]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               43                                   W                                                                                                                                                                  P                                                                                                                                           OTHERWISE NOTED.
                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 71




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              POOL                                                                                                                                                                                                                      F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               [4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KEYED NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7]
                                                                                                                                                                                   4367


                                                                                                                                                                                              [ 4373 ]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROVIDE, INSTALL AND/OR CONSTRUCT THE FOLLOWING PER THE SPECIFICATIONS GIVEN OR REFERENCED AND
                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             437
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4371




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4369                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P                                                                                               THE DETAILS NOTED AND AS SHOWN ON THE CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            77
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              F                                                                                                                  3
                             43                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4                                                                                                                                                       1    CORE-CONNECT NEW STORM DRAIN LINE TO EXISTING STORM DRAIN STRUCTURE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             73
                                                                                                                                                                                                         4369




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
        LOT 4                  72                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  43                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P
                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2    CONNECT NEW STORM DRAIN STRUCTURE TO EXISTING STORM DRAIN STUB.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
      58,277 SQFT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G

      1.34 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4370
                                                                                                                                     43 7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3    STORM DRAIN CATCH BASIN WITH HEAVY DUTY BICYCLE SAFE GRATE. SEE DETAIL 'A5', SHEET C5.01.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G
                                                                                                                        100.4 LF @ 0.50% 70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW
                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4    STORM DRAIN AREA INLET BOX WITH HEAVY DUTY BICYCLE SAFE GRATE. SEE DETAIL 'A7', SHEET C5.01.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4 GRATE: 4372.85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IE IN: 4371.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   [ 4373 ]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6" DIAMETER HDPE STORM DRAIN LINE. SEE APWA PLANS NO. 381 & 382, SHEET C5.02 FOR TRENCHING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
PARKING STRUCTURE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LIFE TIME                                                                                                                                                            LOT 6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IE OUT: 4370.75                                                                                    G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DETAIL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               73
                                                                                                               NEW RETAINING WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  74




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
      LEVEL 3: 4388.58                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FFE: 4374.00                                                                                                                                         169,705 SQFT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M    M
                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                               (CONSTRUCTED BY OTHERS)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            43
      LEVEL 2: 4377.83
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.896 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8" DIAMETER HDPE STORM DRAIN LINE. SEE APWA PLANS NO. 381 & 382, SHEET C5.02 FOR TRENCHING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              437
      LEVEL 1: 4366.50                                                                                                             437                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                                                  3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8" STORM DRAIN LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GA                                                                                                              DETAIL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
    PARKING STALLS: 345                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (SEE PLUMBING PLANS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12" DIAMETER HDPE STORM DRAIN LINE. SEE APWA PLANS NO. 381 & 382, SHEET C5.02 FOR TRENCHING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MM
                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FOR CONTINUATION)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DETAIL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FRENCH DRAIN WITH 6" DIAMETER PERFORATED HDPE STORM DRAIN LINE. SEE DETAILS 'E5' & 'E6', SHEET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C5.01.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CO
                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD                 MATCH EXISTING TRAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IR RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                           72                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GA                                                                                                                                                                                       9    REMOVE AND PROPERLY DISPOSE OF EXISTING STORM DRAIN STRUCTURE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                         43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOCATED IN THE NE 1/4 OF SECTION 9 & NW 1/4 OF SECTION 10, SLB&M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PW



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10   REMOVE AND PROPERLY DISPOSE OF EXISTING STORM DRAIN LINE STUB.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4370
                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7 76.0 LF @ 0.20%                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                             GRATE: 4371.43 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STORM DRAIN CLEANOUT, PER APWA PLAN NO. 431, SHEET C5.02.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                             IE OUT: 4367.83




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           37




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        72




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IR RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BLOCK L PUD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              POOL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                               68                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          195,972 SQFT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -L

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW
                                                                                                                            43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3 GRATE: 4373.94




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.50 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IE IN: 4370.60 AS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1975 E. RODEO WALK DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W- L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IE OUT: 4370.60
                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LIFE TIME - HOLLADAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KIDS AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4]
                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -L

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     [ 437
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                        [ 4372 ]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LO                                                         -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HOLLADAY CITY, UTAH 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                         4367




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4370

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15.0 LF @ 0.50%                                                                                     SDMH #102




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                73
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIM: 4374.33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -L

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NEW IE IN: 4370.52 (N)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IE IN: 4370.50 (18") E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                         84.7 LF @ 7.46% 7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IE IN: 4370.50 (18") S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              75




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IE OUT: 4370.52 (18") W
                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -L

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD
                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4368




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       437




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -L

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4369




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                             43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LO
                                                               70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -L

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BE
                                                                                                                                                                 4370
                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11 IE: 4368.50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SEE PLUMBING PLANS
                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6 3.0 LF @ 1.74%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 74




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FOR CONTINUATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                              [ 43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L
                                                                                                                                     69                                  LIFE TIME TRANSFORMER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IE: 4368.45                                                                                                                                   AND INVERT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Y
                                                                                                                                          ]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6 4.9 LF @ 1.74%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    21± LF (MATCH SLOPE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            437




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8" IE: 4368.36




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -L

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FROM PLUMBING PLANS)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                             GRATE: 4365.84 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6 8.0 LF @ 1.74%
                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                             IE OUT: 4361.51




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PSW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     c




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IE: 4368.22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GW




                                                                                                                                                                     [ 436




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                             8]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                [ 4373 ]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                          EXISTING 18" SD LINE IE: 4361.33                                                              14.8 LF @ 1.22% 7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           [ 437




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                58.8 LF @ 1.74% 6
                                                                             LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          [ 4372 ]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                              GRATE: 4365.81 2                               3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GA
         18" HDPE STORM DRAIN LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LO
                                                                                                                              IE IN: 4361.94




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -L


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4
         @ 0.20% (BY OTHERS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     c




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW
                                                                                                                              IE IN: 4361.44




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                37
                                                                                                                              IE OUT: 4361.33                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NO PARKING - LOADING ZONE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                         [ 4368 ]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      [ 4371 ]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GA
                                                                                                  SD




                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   [ 4369 ]




                                    437




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                         28.0 LF @ 1.00% 5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                             LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            [ 4372 ]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   [ 43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S                                                                                         S                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SH
                                                                                                                        LOW                                                  LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           71
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  [4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   37




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L OW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           [4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VEHICULAR INGRESS / EGRESS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8" IE: 4367.20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                37




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                c                                           c                      c                                                                                                     c




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                    ////////                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P                                                                                                                                                                                                     12" IE: 4367.03                                                                                                     55.6 LF @ 0.20% 7
                                                                                                                        IE: 4362.22                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P                                                P                                                         P                                                                                 P                                           P                                                                 P
                                                   //////////////////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD                                              SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW                                           LOW                                        LOW                                                                      LOW                                                                    LOW                                             LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COMMON GRADING ABBREVIATIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3 GRATE: 4369.80                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GRATE: 4370.34 3                                                                                                                              GRATE: 4370.39 3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SEE SHEET C0.01 FOR ADDITIONAL ABBREVIATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IE OUT: 4367.03                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IE IN: 4367.00                                                                                                                                IE OUT: 4367.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -L


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NEW DRIVE ENTRANCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IE OUT: 4367.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - BFE                 BASEMENT FLOOR ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RETAIL PLAZA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     c




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                 RETAIL PLAZA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     27.9 LF @ 0.20% 7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - BS                  BOTTOM OF STEP(S)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (BY OTHERS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                 (BY OTHERS)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         - BW                  FINISH GRADE AT BOTTOM OF WALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                LIFE TIME & RETAIL


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -L


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7 45.4 LF @ 0.20%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - EX or EXIST         EXISTING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PW
                                                                                                                                                DUMPSTER ENCLOSURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW




                                                                        ///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /////////////////////////////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - EOA                 EDGE OF ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                //////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ///////////////////////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ////




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - EOC                 EDGE OF CONCRETE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4371




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         / /3/ 7/ 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GRATE: 4371.03 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               - FFE                 FINISH FLOOR ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -L


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IE IN: 4366.94                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 - FG                  FINISH GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IE OUT: 4366.94
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   - FL                  FLOW LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / /4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - GB                  GRADE BREAK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14,680 SQFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - HP                  HIGH POINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.34 ACRES



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - LP                  LOW POINT
                                                                        LOT 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - NG                  NATURAL GROUND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GA
                                                                  42,833 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       - SDCB                STORM DRAIN CATCH BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FUTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS




                                                                                                                                                                       FUTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - SDCO                STORM DRAIN CLEANOUT BOX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R



                                                                  0.98 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - SDDB                STORM DRAIN DRAIN BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                     RETAIL PAD 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  50.0 LF @ 0.20% 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RETAIL PAD 5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - SDMH                STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GA




                                                                                                                                                                                  FFE: 4369.50           43                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FFE: 4371.33                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  - TBC                 TOP BACK OF CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   69
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - TOA                 TOP OF ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4372
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BLOCK G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - TOC                 TOP OF CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - TOG                 TOP OF GRATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     145,709 SQFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - TOW                 TOP OF WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.35 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - TS                  TOP OF STEP(S)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GRATE: 4370.30 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               - TW                  FINISH GRADE AT TOP OF WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IE IN: 4366.84                                                                                                                                                                                       /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4374
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - WW                  WATERWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IE OUT: 4366.84
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                //
                                                                                                                                                                           8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               c




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                                                                                        436




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              46.0 LF @ 0.20% 7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SDCB #101A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9                                                            /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SCOPE LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GRATE: 4370.34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / //
                                                  7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -L




                                 ////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W-L
                                                 6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IE OUT: 4367.21 (12") S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L
                                             3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CM
                                           4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    [ 4370
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ]                                                                               10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROPERTY BOUNDARY AS DEFINE BY SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SDMH #101                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RIM: 4370.82
                                                                                                   W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PWR
                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                             W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PWR                            PWR                           PWR                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD




                                      PWR                                             PWR                                                     PWR                                              PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR                                                                                                                                               PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IE IN: 4367.52 (12") N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AREA WITHIN LIMIT OF WORK LINE PART OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IE IN: 4367.26 (12") S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   THIS PERMIT. AREA OUTSIDE OF LIMIT OF
                                                                                                             W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                         W-L                           W-L                              W-L                                             W-L                   W-L                        W-L                         W-L                              W-L                     W-L                       W-L                                                                                               W-L                      W-L                              W-L                                               W-L                                                            W-L                        W-L                        W-L                       W-L                                                                                                                                         SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IE IN: 4367.01 (18") E
                                                                                                                                                          W-L
                                                                                                       W-L




                                                                                                                                                    W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOW                    WORK LINE EXCLUDED FROM THIS PERMIT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IE OUT: 4366.88 (18") W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                     COMM                               COMM                             COMM                                        COMM                    COMM                           COMM                        COMM                                COMM                      COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COMM
                                                                                                                                                                SS




                              PWR                PWR PWR                           PWR PWR                         PWR PWR                      PWR PWR                          PWR PWR            PWR PWR                       PWR PWR                     PWR PWR                       PWR PWR                 PWR PWR                   PWR PWR                                                                                             PWR PWR                         PWR                                  PWR                                PWR                                                         PWR                                                                                                                                          FO
                                                      FO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS




                                                                                                  FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                 FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                       FO                                   FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FO                                    FO                                                                                                         FO                                       FO                                        COMM                                                                                     SDCB #68B              CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MM                                                                                                                                               -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS




                                                                                                                        SS                                SS                       SS                    SS                        SS                         SS                            SS                     SS                    SS                                                                                                  SS                    SS                                                                                                                                                                GRATE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COMM   4369.48                                                                                                                                R
                                 SS                              SS                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NEW IE IN: 4366.75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PW

                                                                                                             RODEO WAY DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IE OUT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD 4366.75 (12") SW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT BENCHMARK                                                           PROJECT NO: 23301.E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TYPE OF MONUMENT, LOCATED AT...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DESIGNED BY: JHF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BENCHMARK ELEVATION:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SDMH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS




                                      SD                                SD                   SD                              SD                                 SD                      SD                    SD                        SD                         SD                            SD                     SD                    SD                                                                                                  SD                                                         RIM: 4370.03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SDMH    #35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHECKED BY: TJD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS                         GAS PWR                                                                                 SD                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IE IN: 4366.68 (12") NE                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RIM: 4370.60                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DATE:                     JAN. 22, 2026
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IE IN: 4366.39 (12") SW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DOWNTOWN LANE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GA                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IE IN: 4365.99 (18") E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FOPW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4372




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SDMH #34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IE IN: 4365.28 (24") SE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IE IN: 4365.68 (24") S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S




                                           GAS                               GAS                   GAS                                    GAS                           GAS                   GAS                           GAS                       GAS                              GAS                        GAS             RIM: 4369.47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IE OUT: 4364.93 (24") NW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MM         -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IE OUT: 4365.43 (24") N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IE IN: 4364.28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S     (24") SE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NOTICE!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IE OUT: 4364.28 (24") NW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R                                                                                                                        PW


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GRADING AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RESPONSIBLE FOR THE LOCATION,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRAINAGE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROTECTION, AND RESTORATION
                                                                                   BLOCK E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BLOCK F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD                                                  PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W-L



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OF ALL BURIED OR ABOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S




                                                                                    168,390 SQFT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 198,133 SQFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ISSUE FOR BID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GROUND UTILITIES, SHOWN OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MM FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CO
                                                                                     3.86 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.54 ACRES


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C2.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD                                                 PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NOT SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GA                                                                                                                                        -L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I                VE
                                                                S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D
                                                                    S
                                                                            S
                                                                                    S
                                                                                            S
                                                                                                S




                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 H




                                       S
                                                                                                              S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G




                               S
                                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HI
                           S                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                   S




                       S
                                                                                                                                                                         S




                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                 S




               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TV

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E
                                                                                                                                                                                                 S




           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M




                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E            CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Y-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E     TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E        CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SCALE: 1" =80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TV

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IG                                                                                                                                                                          CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ETV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A    TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .1 SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2"      TU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EX N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         . T NE      W       B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RA CT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NS TO STU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FO E          B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RM X.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ETV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V=
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4     35                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ECAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    48                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX                                                                                                                      X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ±




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IG                                                                                                                     E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X     TV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   @
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 YC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TR                                                                                                                             .L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX                                                                                                                                                         IG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HT                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EX        IN . S                                                                                                                                                                        PO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .2        V= S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ECA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          43 CO                                                                                                                                                                      LE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            49




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AS        .4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .F                               8±                                                     W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IR                                                                                        TR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X   CA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T                                                      TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD                        W .W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TR TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LI                                                                 AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S                                                       W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G                                                                  V




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD                                                                                                                                                                   .L                                                                                        SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EC                                                                                                                                                                                                     T                                                                                                                                                                                                   IG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RE                    T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LE                                                                E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TR 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LO                     TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W X.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TR                                                                                                                                  PO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD                                                                                                       CA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TE              LE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             "F               D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IR                      CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E      NE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PR                     RO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              O      FD             O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6"                                             C             M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD                              W                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W                                TE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CO                          SV                              N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NN                                                       LI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EBTV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12 ON                       T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            " W NE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C       TR CT                                   EL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6" ON       ST TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W NE                                                     .R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UB EX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TR C            .                                            O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T                                                       O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ST TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UB E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T                                                        TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FO



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W                                                                                 IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TR                                                                                V= S                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                43 SC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  47 O                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EX                                                                                6                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W                               ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           T                                                                                      L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         &                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      M                                                                                            IN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .V                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6 RE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RE AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X   E                                                         AU IN                                                                                 FO ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T                                                                          Q D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EX @
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            'D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R X. 5                                                                                                                                          IN R ALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LT V=4 SS                                                                          TE G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FF 4,13 TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IN IM= ' S                                                              34 C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TR                                                                                     IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     . 1 0.5 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RC RE 3" V




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7. O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IN V ( 43 SM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       =4 0 IL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       16                                                                     7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E FO



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EP AS EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T                       IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IN V ( NX)= 56. H                                                                                                                                        LF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4"                                                                                                                                                   L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TO E                                                                                                                                                                                            35 S.F BU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HY ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V E) 43 74
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (W =4 4                                                                                                                                                 6"      R                                                                                                                                                                                                8. . I,D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EL                                TA                                                                                       DR ALL                 LI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS % SWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EC 8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              )= 34 5.7                                                                                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E                                                                                                                      AN FI                     HT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 43 5. 6                                                            5                                                                                    @
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              50     I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CO TR AC                                    BO                                                                                 T    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   45 56 8"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LL                                 W                                                                     PO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RE E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .3 10                                  FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FO                                                                                                             2.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ND ICA H                                                                              TR                                                                   LE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5,      0%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Q




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6                                    FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  X                                                                                          6"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RE AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        'D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UI L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I                         10 "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G 000                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T                                           Q D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "                                                                                                                                     P RE G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CO                                                                                                                                                                        'D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IN NV           EX                                                                                            @




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IN V (N R .                                                                                                                                                           P ER AS AL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V (S E) IM 5'                                                                                                           0%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E     = =        S                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R LAN AP E IN LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CO                                                               SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IN IM= N WA TE N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W )=4 434 435 SM                                                                                              SW                                            V     4    O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 )= 34 6 7 H                                                                   NN                                   R                                  IN I 3 . ST RC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    43 6 .0 .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EC                                                                       V N= 58 44 A E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      45 .08 8 8 1                                                                       T                                                     S            O 4 .7 1 N PT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              U 3 5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EC                                                                                                                                                                             SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .8 1 "                                                                                                                                                                     DA O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6 0"                                                                 IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS T= 47.                  RD R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10                                                                                                                                                    43 02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "                                                                          S E                                                        SR M            4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V=




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        43 S L X. 8                                                 INWIRM= SH ( 6.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          46 IN "                                                 IN V I 43 RE 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .3 E                                                          N 5 Q                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2±                                               5 V O =4 8.8 'D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LF U 3 8 ) S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6" T=4 46.               SW EX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX       SS 34 57                  R    .8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .E        @ 6.3 6"                    S" S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LE        1. 7 6                          INE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W                                                                                 IG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0% "




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TR                                                                                    HT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SWS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UL                                     R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S                                                                                                 E                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IN                                                                  6                                                                                                                                                                                                          4" EA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IN X. 8                                                                                                                                              S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CO EL CH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IN " SS CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V= " S                                                                                                                                                                                                              S           M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TA                                                        5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD                                                                                                                                         SW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ND EC                                                                                                                          TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R                                                                                     43 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LF I TA @             RO                                                                                                                                              RE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                47 LI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IN FOR L 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UI TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .9 NE                                                                                                                                 TE G " V                                                          6 NV LL 2.0           O                                                                                                                                                 LO                                           T IC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            @
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5±                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RC R E                                                       IN " SS =43 SS 0%FO M                                                                                                                                                           CA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ST @ 5 CO                                                                                                                                                                          TE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EP EAS NT                                                      A         3.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0                                                                                                                                                                        D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TO E                                                    IN LL 2. 8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R                                                       V= S 00                                                                                                                                                                                     TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .76%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SW S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  43 SC %                                                                FO                                                                                                                     AN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R .4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      M       52 O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        33                                       .7                                                                                                                                                                                                 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IN IM= ' S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ET                                                                                                                                                                                                           O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IN V ( 43 SM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LF                          ER                                                                                                                                                                                                         RM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IN V ( NE 58. H                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EX. G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V SW )= 22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (E         4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5                  S                                                                                                                FO                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       @




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        " GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            )= )=4 347                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              43 34 .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6"                       00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS F 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                47 6. 7 8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                INE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .0 97 "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7                                                                           SS                                                                                                                                                        IN                                           @                                                                                                                               FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX. FO


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12                                                                                                                                               S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     @                                                                                                                                                       V




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LIN G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6" 8"                                                                                                                                                                                                                LF                                                                                                                                    I SC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       =4 SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0                                                                                                                                                                                            00                                                    S        1 NV O                                                                                 8                                                                                           E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS          0%                                                                                                                       6"           35 C                                                   %                                                                                                                                        E            EA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS          1. O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C. L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          64                                                                                                                                                                     IN SCO 3 LF =43                                                                                                                                                             CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               99                                                                                                                                                                                                            CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IN                                                                                                                  LF                                            IN     @                                                                                                              V=
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      43           6" 52                                                                   FO                                                               TO                   EX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NN.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4"                                                                E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V                                                                                                                        6"                                       V=                                                                                        SS                             52          SS .96                                                                                                                                      EX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M                                                                                                                                                       43 .00                                                                                                                               @                                                                   8                       E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EL                                        .C                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IN INV (N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R L WTR M. LIN FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E                                                                                                                          SS                                                                                                                                                                 3                                                                                                              EC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V                    H   SS                                                                                                                                                  51 %                                                                                                                                                                                                       EA                                                                      O                        TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 @                                                                                                                                                                        2.                                                                                                                                             M                  LA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IM F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (W (SE -IN RIM (R                                                                                                                                                               5                                                                                                                                                          00                                                  CH                                      CO                         M                   TE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         %                                                             FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PR U                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ON                            EX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -O -IN )=4 =4 EQ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               D                  N           .              C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O TU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UT )= 34 35 'D                                                                                                                                 %                                                                                                                                 3,                                                                                                                CO                                            EL                           IN RAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E UI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6" NE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VE RE                                                                                                                                                                                                               )= 434 9.6 7.8 )                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G 000                                                                                                                 M             T C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W C               EC             ND            V= @
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M                                                                                      EX                                                                                                                           53 9 9 5                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P RE G                                                                                                                   M                           TR T                              UI           43 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T            .C               T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .F                                                                                                                           49 .69 6"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .C         12 NN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P ER AS AL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O                          56 .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IR                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SL O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EN                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .3 6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .9 %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ON FO     "F E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E                                                                                                                      9 "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C          E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX            ND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1±




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TS                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6"                                                                                                                                                                             R LAN AP E IN LON                                                                                                                                                                                                   DU                          EV .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E TT                               UI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DR                                                                                                                                                                                                            4"                                                                            IN IM= N WA TE                                                                                                                                                                                                           IT           SL O           E                    T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AN                                                                                                                                                                                                             EL                                                          SS        IN V ( 43 O. ST RC                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EE EX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V N- 58 44 A E                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T                                                                                                                                                                                                               EC 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                86                                                        VE .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (S IN .5 1 ND PT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -O )= 0                                                                                                                                                                             LF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CO TR AC                                                           SS                           AR OR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ODE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UT 43             D                                                                                                                                                                      6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ND ICA H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  )= 52.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IN IM= H (




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SW S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UI L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T                                                                             43 70                                                                                                                                                                                         TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               41       IN V ( 43 RE                   52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .2                                                                                                                                                                                           SV                                                                                                 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EV N- 58 Q'D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LF          (S IN .8                       9                                                                                                                                                                                              C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6"          -O )= 8 )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     U    4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R M                                     T) 352




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              @
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         =4 .1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W                                                                 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I                     IN                                                                                                                                 IN IM= H (                            2         35 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V NV                                                                                                                                   42                 IN V ( 43 RE                   8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E                                                                                                   LF .00% 1.9 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (N (S                                                                                                                                   LF                V N- 57 Q'D                                           9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W E- R MH                                                                                                                                                (S IN .8                          6"                  6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6"                 W )= 5 )             IN                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W                                                                                                                                     G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -O IN IM (R                                            E                                                                                                                                     SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O W TR LINTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5' MIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -O 43                  ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UT )= =4 E                                                                                                                                                                                    @                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            )= 435 35 Q'D                                                                                                                          @               UT 45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     )    1           IN AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L          2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R.                                                                                                   S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              43 1 8. )                                                                                                                                                =5 .1             V= S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   79 LF 6" SS @ 2.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.                                                         0%                                                                                                                                                                                                      AD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IN            LF         51 .47 88                                                                                                                               00               35 7 6              43 SC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .2 6                                                                                                                                    %               0. "                 52 O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SWRS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ST           6"           7 "                                                                                                                                                     97                    .3                                                                                                                                                                                                              VIST                                        SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AL           SS         6"                                                                                                                                                                              3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G                                   S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IN FOR L 3                @
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NIN                                                                                                     SWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TE G " V                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CHA                                                 SD                        G                             S                                      E       E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.                                                                                                                                                                                                    IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PRO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RC R E                 00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IN ST                                                                                                                                                                      SD                                                              S                 INE                         WTR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     24        EP EAS NT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SWR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C. L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P. 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TO E                                                                                                                                                                                                                V= AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G                                                                                ELE                                                   FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8S6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         43 L S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6"                                                                                                                                                                                                                            52 S                                                                                                                                              .08%                                                       LF            E  EX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S                                                                                                                                                            " GA      SS                                                    .8 CO                                                                                                                                 G      @2                                                                                   WTR                      FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0                                                                                                      SD                             LINE SWR S                                                                12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IN S @                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E                         "F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               " SS S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ST      2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E      X. 8                                                                                       IR FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD                                                                                                                                                E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IN                     T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EX IN AL .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G                                                                                        WTR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LINE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15          V= S                 EC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             00%                                                                            SWSR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E                                                          PR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        @ 2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        . 1 V= L S %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T                                          SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S                                                                                                                                                                                                               O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LF          43 SC                           2" 43 SC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6" S                      SD                   G                                                                                                E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6"         51 O            CO EX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C                                                              S                                                  E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  . LIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS        .2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FI 52 O                                                                                                                                                                                                                36 LF                                                                                                                                        WTROMM                   FO                                                                             CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EX                      4           ND . C           RE .4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD         ES ON     G                                                                                                          C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          @                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LIN                                                                                                                 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .6                                  UI OM             SL                              L F                                                                                                                                                                                 AS                     IN S L NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SWR                                                                                              FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "S                                 TS M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4" GG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.                                        EE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD                                                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V= AT CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S          00                                                                       6"                                                                                                                                                              EX.                                                 E                                                       E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (3 .                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  %                        )              VE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           43 WTR    TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LA                                                                       15            TR                                                                                                                                             G           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         52 RA FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PR LF                                                                                                                                                                CSWR                                                     .1 L EX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SV                                                                                                                                                                                                           7±
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G                                                                           EFO                   .6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IN RAL                                                                  O 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TE "SD            C                                                                                                                                  S        2" ON                    WTR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V= @
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C    F                                                                                                                                                        G NE                                   RI X. 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              43 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AS C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 50 .0                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TI IREG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          O                                                                                                          SWR                                                 S    T                         IN M= ' S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V        4     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .9    %                                                    G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E                     T                   I N      ( 3 M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WTR TU O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4±                                                                     LI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N                                                                                                                                                                                IN V ( NE 63. H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              B EX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E                   G            S                                                                                                                                   .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SW                                                                                                                                  IN V ( SE )=4 20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FO                                      V      S        =     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD                     G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WTR                                                        3,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (N W) 43 51.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G 000                      W =4 51 68
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LINE FO                                                      P RE G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          )= 35 .8 8

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD                         G            S                SWR                                              TR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P ER AS AL                            43 1 5 "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E           EX WTR . 12" W                                                                                                                                                    51 .48 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G                                                                                                     FO                                                                                                     R LAN AP E IN LON                               .8 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             %S                                          E                                        . 6 EX                                                                                                                                                               5 "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.00SWR                                                                                      "W                                                                                                           IN IM= N WA TE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G          @                                                                                                     FO                                                                                                                    V    4     O         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INSE                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L                                                E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WTR                                            TR                                                                                                             ( 3 . S              C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IN V ( NE 58. 441 TAN EP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SX. 8"                              E                                                                                                      SL                                                                                                 V SW -IN 50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WR                                                                                                                                      EE                                                                                                   NW - )=                  DA TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RD R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WTR                          FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VE                                                                                                    -O IN)= 435




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX            UT 43 1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .F            )= 51 96
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FO                                                                                                                                                                                                      IR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E          43 .9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HY          51 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CHANIN VISTA DR.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX                                                                                                                                                             DR            5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .C                                                                                                                                                         AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O                                                                                                                                                          T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AU
                                                                                                                                                                                                     S                   S                       S                   S                   S                       S                       S                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RO



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DEO



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LK



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S




                                                                                                                                             RIVERWALK RUN DR. (F)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S




                                                                                                                                                                                             S                   S                       S                       S               S                       S                       S                   S                           S                 S                        S                           S                           S                            S                       S                      S                          S                        S                  S                      S                          S                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AMY VIEW LN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MEMORY LANE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                               RIVER WALK LN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RODEO WALK DR.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SUNSET DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                           HIGHLAND DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S   S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DOWNTON LN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                         S           S                   S                       S                       S                   S                   S                       S                   S                           S                    S                     S                          S                              S                       S                              S                 S                          S                        S                     S                   S                          S                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FIRE HYDRANT LOCATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                            RIVER WALK LN.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S                         IR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                     S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                             '




                                   S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                            S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ARB




                                                      S                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S                     S
                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OR L




                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A




                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                     S

                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NE




                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                    S                            S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '

                                                                                                        S                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '

                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                     S




                                                                                                                                                    S




                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L I CENS
               ROYAL HOLLADAY HLS. SUB. - ROADS A-FKMW
                                                    H & I DEVELOPMENT LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PRO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ATE




                 4835 S. HIGHLAND DR., HOLLADAY, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CIVIL




                                                          OVERALL CONCEPTUAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FESER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PAUL S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FESS IONAL




U500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OF UTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         No. 4770481



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ST 05/17/2022 H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S.E. SCIENCE, LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ENG
                                           MASTER UTILITY PLAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I NEER
                                                                                                                              TREE ANALYSIS
                         405 CAR, 3 LEVEL                60,000 SF
                         PARKING STRUCTURE                2 STORY
                                                       FITNESS CLUB




                    AIL/
                    TAURANTS              RETAIL               RETAIL
                                                                                           50 SHADE AND
                                                                                           FLOWERING TREES
                                                                                           TO BE PLANTED
                               RODEO WALK DRIVE
Google Earth 2020                                                                                                                  Drone Photo February 2025


                                                                                          TREES TO BE SAVED


                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                    OVE
                                                                                                             E   REM
                                                                                                         B
                                                                                                    S TO
                                                                                                RE E
                                                                                           BT
                                                                                      S CRU
                                                                                    &
                                                                          HR   UB
                                                                    S HYS
                                                              BR   U
                                                   ➤




                                                   N
                                     600 ft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LANDSCAPE SCHEDULE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SYMBOL            QTY.       COMMON NAME                      BOTANICAL NAME                          SIZE                                      DETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DECIDUOUS TREES
                                                                                                    SUNSET DRIVE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7        QUEEN ELIZABETH HEDGE MAPLE      ACER CAMPESTRE 'EVELYN'                2" CAL.                                    D/L5.01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10       AUTUMN BRILLIANCE SERVICEBERRY   AMELANCHIER x GRANDIFLORA              2" CAL.                                    D/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            'AUTUMN BRILLIANCE'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10       SPRING SNOW CRABAPPLE            MALUS x 'SPRING SNOW'                  2" CAL.                                    D/L5.01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4        SKINNY GENES® OAK                QUERCUS x BIMUNDORUM                  3"-4" CAL.                                  D/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            'JFS-KW2QX'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16       FRONTIER ELM                     ULMUS 'FRONTIER'                      3"-4" CAL.                                  D/L5.01




                                                                                                                                                                                     L-1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4        ALLEE LACEBARK ELM               ULMUS PARVIFLORA 'ELMER II'            2" CAL.                                    D/L5.01




                                                                                                                                                         POOL
                                                              L-3



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3        LACEBARK ELM (BY OTHERS)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   02/03/2026
                                                                                                                                                                                     L-1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EVERGREEN TREES

                                                              L-4                           LIFE TIME                                                                                                                                                             15       BLUE NOOTKA CYPRESS              CHAMAECYPARIS NOOTKATENSIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            'GLAUCA'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6' HT MIN.                                  E/L5.01



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12       ROCKY MOUNTAIN JUNIPER           JUNIPERUS SCOPULORUM                  6' HT MIN.                                  E/L5.01



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  29       MOONGLOW JUNIPER                 JUNIPERUS SCOPULORUM                  8' HT MIN.                                  E/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            'MOONGLOW'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9        BUSH'S LACE ENGLEMAN SPRUCE      PICEA ENGELMANNII 'BUSH'S LACE'       8' HT MIN.                                  E/L5.01


                                                                                                                                                         POOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7        BONNY BLUE COLORADO BLUE         PICEA PUNGENS GLAUCA 'BONNY           8' HT MIN.                                  E/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SPRUCE                           BLUE'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5        PINYON PINE                      PINUS EDULIS                          8' HT MIN.                                  E/L5.01



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SHRUBS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1975 E. RODEO WALK DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LIFE TIME - HOLLADAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  18       SASKATOON SERVICEBERRY           AMELANCHIER ALNIFOLIA                  5 GAL.                                     B/L5.01


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  40       PANCHITO MANZANITA               ARCTOSTAPHYLOS x COLORADOENSIS         5 GAL.                                     B/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            'PANCHITO'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  39       WYOMING BIG SAGEBRUSH            ARTEMISIA TRIDENTATA                   5 GAL.                                     B/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            'WYOMINGENSIS'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  25       RED TWIG DOGWOOD                 CORNUS SERICEA 'BAILEYI'               5 GAL.                                     B/L5.01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HOLLADAY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  36       DWARF RUBBER RABBITBRUSH         ERICAMERIA NAUSEOSA NAUSEOSUS          5 GAL.                                     B/L5.01


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8        JELENA WITCH HAZEL               HAMAMELIS x INTERMEDIA 'JELENA'        5 GAL.                                     E/L5.01


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12       ROSE OF SHARON                   HIBISCUS SYRIACUS 'ARDENS'             5 GAL.                                     B/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                              X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  96       BROADMOOR JUNIPER                JUNIPERUS SABINA 'BROADMOOR'           5 GAL.                                     B/L5.01

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  81       SCHIPKA LAUREL                   PRUNUS LAUROCERASUS                     6' HT.                                    B/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            'SCHIPKAENSIS'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  45       GRO-LOW FRAGRANT SUMAC           RHUS AROMATICA 'GRO-LOW'               5 GAL.                                     B/L5.01




                                                                                                                                                                         AD
                                                                            TYP.                                                                  TYP.




                                                                                                                                                                       RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  21       TIGER EYES SUMAC                 RHUS TYPHINA 'BAILTIGER'               10 GAL.                                    B/L5.01
                                                                      L-2                                                                   L-2




                                                                                                                                                                       E
                                                                                                                       TYP.                                                                                                                                       90       GRO-LOW SUMAC (BY OTHERS)




                                                                                                                                                                     IR
                                                                                                                                                                   SH
                                                                                                                 L-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  46       BROADMOOR JUNIPER (BY OTHERS)




                                                                                                                                                                 IL
                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  49       DWARF BURNING BUSH (BY OTHERS)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PERENNIALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 149       BLANKET FLOWER                   GAILLARDIA ARISTATA                    1 GAL.                                     A/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 277       JOHNSON'S BLUE CRANESBILL        GERANIUM 'JOHNSON'S BLUE'              3 GAL.                                     A/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  30       PRAIRIE SMOKE                    GEUM TRIFLORUM 'PRAIRIE SMOKE'         1 GAL.                                     A/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  40       AIRBRUSH EFFECT HARDY HIBISCUS   HIBISCUS 'AIRBRUSH EFFECT'             5 GAL.                                     A/L5.01

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 170       STEPPSUNS SUNSET GLOW            PENSTEMON PINIFOLIUS 'P019S'           3 GAL.                                     A/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PENSTEMON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  56       ROCKY MOUNTAIN BEARDTONGUE       PENSTEMON STRICTUS                     5 GAL.                                     A/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ORNAMENTAL GRASSES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 131       BLONDE AMBITION BLUE GRAMA       BOUTELOUA GRACILIS 'BLONDE             1 GAL.                                     A/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GRASS                            AMBITION'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  21       HARDY PAMPUS GRASS               ERIANTHUS RAVENNAE                     5 GAL.                                     A/L5.01
                                       FUTURE RETAIL                                                            FUTURE RETAIL                                                                                                                                    233       ATLAS FESCUE                     FESTUCA MAIREI                         1 GAL.                                     A/L5.01
                                           PAD 4                                                                    PAD 5                                                                                                                                        143       BLUE OAT GRASS                   HELICTOTRICHON SEMPERVIRENS            5 GAL.                                     A/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SYMBOL            QTY.       DESCRIPTION                      INSTRUCTIONS                            SIZE        SOURCE                        DETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BOULDERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BURY 1/3 THE DEPTH OF THE                            BOULDERS FROM BROWN'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BOULDER INTO FINISH GRADE. DO                        CANYON QUARRY. CONTACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  78       "BROWNS CANYON" BOULDERS         NOT USE BOULDERS THAT ARE LESS     2'-4' DIAMETER IN ONE SOURCE MATERIALS,        H/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            THAN 24" DIAMETER. BOULDER SHALL   ALL DIRECTIONS ONESOURCEMATERIALS.COM,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BE WASHED AND FREE OF DIRT AND                       (385) 447-9374.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OTHER FOREIGN DEBRIS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CRUSHED ROCK
                                                                                                                                        G
                                                                                                                                     IGI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INSTALLED A MINIMUM 3" DEEP.                        CRUSHED ROCK FROM
                                                                                                                                     IG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INSTALL OVER DEWITTS 4.1 WEED                       BROWN'S CANYON QUARRY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3,004 S.F.   "BROWNS CANYON" CRUSHED ROCK     BARRIER FABRIC. CRUSHED ROCK       2"-4" DIAMETER   CONTACT ONE SOURCE            G/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHALL BE FREE OF DIRT & OTHER                       MATERIALS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FOREIGN DEBRIS.                                     ONESOURCEMATERIALS.COM,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (385) 447-9374.
                                                                                                                                IG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INSTALLED A MINIMUM 3" DEEP.                        CRUSHED ROCK FROM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INSTALL OVER DEWITTS 4.1 WEED                       BROWN'S CANYON QUARRY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              22,259 S.F. "BROWNS CANYON" CRUSHED ROCK      BARRIER FABRIC. CRUSHED ROCK       3/4" DIAMETER    CONTACT ONE SOURCE            G/L5.01
                                       RODEO WAY DRIVE                                                                                                                        REFERENCE NOTES                                                                                                               SHALL BE FREE OF DIRT & OTHER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FOREIGN DEBRIS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MATERIALS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ONESOURCEMATERIALS.COM,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (385) 447-9374.
                                                                                                                                                                              L-1.     METAL EDGING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MULCH
                                                                                                                                                                                       DETAIL I/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                              L-2.     SITE LIGHTING - SEE LIGHTING SCHEDULE ON SHEET                                                                       INSTALLED A MINIMUM 3" DEEP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INSTALL OVER DEWITTS 4.1 WEED                       MILLER COMPANIES (435)
                                                                                                                                                                                       L4.01                                                                  8,349 S.F.   SOIL PEP                         BARRIER FABRIC. BARK MULCH SHALL                    245-3157 OR APPROVED          G/L5.01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REV
                                                                                                                                                                              L-3.     CONCRETE MOWSTRIP - SEE ARCHITECTURAL SITE                                                                           BE FREE OF DIRT, ROCK AND OTHER                     EQUAL
                                                                                                                                                                                       PLAN FOR DETAILS AND SPECIFICATIONS                                                                                  FOREIGN DEBRIS.

                                                                                                                                                                              L-4.     ARTIFICIAL TURF AREA - SEE ARCHITECTS PLANS FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                       DETAILS & SPECIFICATIONS                                                                                             INSTALLED A MINIMUM 3" DEEP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT NO:                             23301.E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INSTALL OVER DEWITTS 4.1 WEED                       MILLER COMPANIES (435)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               484 S.F.    PREMIUM DARK BROWN BARK MULCH    BARRIER FABRIC. BARK MULCH SHALL                    245-3157 OR APPROVED          G/L5.01   DRAWN BY:                                           TG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (TO MATCH EXISTING)              BE FREE OF DIRT, ROCK AND OTHER                     EQUAL
                                                                                                                                                                              GENERAL NOTE                                                                                                                  FOREIGN DEBRIS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHECKED BY:                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LAWN
                                                                                                                                                                              1.       REFER TO COMMON EARTHWORK, TOPSOIL & GRADING,                                                                                                                                                                    DATE:                     01/21/26
                                                                                                                                                                                       AND PLANTING NOTES ON SHEET L0.01
                                                                    NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                              2.       ALL NEW LAWN SOD SHALL BE A TWCA CERTIFIED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "DESERT SAGE" LAWN SOD - TWCA    INSTALL OVER MINIMUM 5" TOPSOIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CHANSHARE FARMS (866)                   SUBMISSION: ISSUE FOR BID
AVOID CUTTING UNDERGROUND                                                                                                                                                              VARIETY - SEE LANDSCAPE SCHEDULE.                                      4,032 S.F.                                                                                        SOD-EASY OR APPROVED          F/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CERTIFIED                        LAYER.                                              EQUAL
    UTILITIES. IT'S COSTLY.            NOTICE!
                                                                                   0   20      40       60 ft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LANDSCAPE
                              THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PLANTING
       BEFORE YOU
                              RESPONSIBLE FOR THE LOCATION,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PLAN
                              PROTECTION, AND RESTORATION                                                                                                                                               ALWAYS PLANT ACCORDING TO                             3,065 S.F.   "BIO-NATIVE" NATIVE GRASS SOD    INSTALL OVER MINIMUM 5" TOPSOIL                     BIOGRASS SOD FARMS,           F/L5.01
                              OF ALL BURIED OR ABOVE                                                                                                                                                    CENTER POINT OF THE SYMBOL                                                                          LAYER.                                              (801)562-9090, BIOGRASS.COM
                              GROUND UTILITIES, SHOWN OR
                              NOT SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
       1-800-662-4111


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L2.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IRRIGATION SCHEDULE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SUNSET DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SYMBOL                        DESCRIPTION                    MANUFACTURER              SERIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OUTLETS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5000 Series 04in. Pop-Up MPR            RAIN BIRD             5004-PCR-25F             F/L5.02

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5000 Series 04in. Pop-Up MPR            RAIN BIRD             5004-PCR-25H             F/L5.02

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5000 Series 04in. Pop-Up MPR            RAIN BIRD             5004-PCR-25Q             F/L5.02

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5000 Series 04in. Pop-Up MPR            RAIN BIRD            5004-PCR-25Q+             F/L5.02

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5000 Series 04in. Pop-Up MPR            RAIN BIRD            5004-PCR-25TQ             F/L5.02

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5000 Series 12in. Pop-Up MPR            RAIN BIRD             5012-PCR-30H             F/L5.02


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W     W    W   W   W   W      W         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5000 Series 12in. Pop-Up MPR            RAIN BIRD             5012-PCR-30Q             F/L5.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W       W       W               W     W   W          W   W   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W    W   W   W   W     W             W                W     W
                                                               0.3 gpm




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3 gpm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5000 Series 12in. Pop-Up MPR            RAIN BIRD            5012-PCR-30Q+             F/L5.02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5000 Series 12in. Pop-Up MPR            RAIN BIRD            5012-PCR-30TQ             F/L5.02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3 g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            gpm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0 .3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.3 gpm




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            gpm




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      gp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 pm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0 .3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SYMBOL                        DESCRIPTION                    MANUFACTURER               MODEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DRIP AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.2 gpm                             W                                                                                                   25

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9.9 gpm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.4 gp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TREE DRIP RING W/ ROWS SPACED @ 24"            NETAFIM                TLCV9-12              A/L5.04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    m                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 APART
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                15.8 gpm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VALVES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                0 .3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LAWN CIRCUIT CONTROL VALVE                 RAIN BIRD               150-PEB               H/L5.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                  gp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0 .3
                    m




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            gp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XCZ-100-PRB-COM DRIP ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KIT WITH 100-PEB CONTROL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRIP CIRCUIT CONTROL VALVE               RAIN BIRD                                     C/L5.02
                            0.4 g                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VALVE AND BASKET FILTER
                                    pm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WITH BUILT-IN PRV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             POOL                                                                                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              25                                            OTHER EQUIPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IRRIGATION CONTROLLER WITH RAIN             RAIN BIRD              ESP8LXME               G/L5.03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.4 g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             pm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SHUTOFF DEVICE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PO C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          POINT OF CONNECTION                                                                 A/L5.03




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0 .3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    02/03/2026




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   gp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             gpm
                                    pm
                            0.3 g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONCRETE PAD FOR BACKFLOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0 .3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C/L5.03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PREVENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                         LIFE TIME                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0 .4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            gpm


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SYMBOL                            TYPE                                                MATERIAL               DETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4 gpm

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PIPE
      0.3 gpm


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1" DRIP SUPPLY LINE. 1/2" SWING PIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (FUNNY PIPE) AND EMITTERS NOT SHOWN                           SCHEDULE 40 PVC PIPE WITH     A/L5.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            gp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ON PLAN FOR GRAPHIC CLARITY.                             SCHEDULE 40 PVC FITTINGS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 m
                                   m
                              gp
                       0 .3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           gpm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0 .3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0 .3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             POOL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        gp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             m




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 gp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SCHEDULE 40 PVC PIPE WITH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.4 gp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1-1/2" MAIN LINE                                                                A/L5.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SCHEDULE 80 PVC FITTINGS.




                                   gpm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3 gpm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SCHEDULE 40 PVC PIPE WITH
                            0 .3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3/4" - 1-1/2" LATERAL LINE                                                           A/L5.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.3 gpm                                                                                                                                                                                   SCHEDULE 40 PVC FITTINGS.
                  0.3 gpm




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               gp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1975 E. RODEO WALK DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0 .3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LIFE TIME - HOLLADAY
                                                                                               pm
                                                                                             0.3 g




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.3 gpm




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  gp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0 .3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   gp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PIPE SLEEVE UNDER NEW PAVING                                    SCHEDULE 40 PVC           B/L5.02
                            0.4 gpm

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           gp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HOLLADAY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3 gpm
                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3 gpm




                                                                                                                         0 .3         0 .3                 0 .4
                                                                                                                                gpm          gpm                  gpm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7                                                                                                                                              PIPE SLEEVE UNDER EXISTING PAVING                                 SCHEDULE 40 PVC           B/L5.02
                                                                         0.3 gpm




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7.0 gpm

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6
                                                                                                                                                   0.4 gpm

                                       0.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12.3 gpm
                                            3
                                                gp
                                                     m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     #           VALVE NUMBER
                                                                                                               0.3 gpm




                                                                                                                                                                        0.4 gpm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13.9 gpm




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       gpm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               gpm




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              gpm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       gpm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3 gpm




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           gpm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      gpm          VALVE FLOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0 .3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0 .3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0 .3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0 .3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0 .3




                                                         1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    m
                                                                                                                                      0.4 gpm                     0.4 gpm                         0.4 gpm                    0.4 gp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12.2 gpm
                                            11.8 gpm
                                                                                                        2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EMITTER SCHEDULE
                                                                                                                                                   3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PLANT NAME                                 DRIP EMISSION DEVICE     MANUFACTURER               MODEL             DETAIL
                                                                                                     8.1 gpm




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ALLEE LACEBARK ELM                             TREE DRIP RING           NETAFIM               TLCV9-12           A/L5.04
                                                                                                                                             10.7 gpm




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AUTUMN BRILLIANCE SERVICEBERRY                 TREE DRIP RING           NETAFIM               TLCV9-12           A/L5.04

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BLUE NOOTKA CYPRESS                            (2) 5-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      PCT05 (BEIGE)        E/L5.02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BONNY BLUE COLORADO BLUE SPRUCE                TREE DRIP RING           NETAFIM               TLCV9-12           A/L5.04




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BUSH'S LACE ENGLEMAN SPRUCE                    (2) 5-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      PCT05 (BEIGE)        E/L5.02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FRONTIER ELM                                   TREE DRIP RING           NETAFIM               TLCV9-12           A/L5.04

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MOONGLOW JUNIPER                               (2) 5-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      PCT05 (BEIGE)        E/L5.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PINYON PINE                                    TREE DRIP RING           NETAFIM               TLCV9-12           A/L5.04

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           QUEEN ELIZABETH HEDGE MAPLE                    TREE DRIP RING           NETAFIM               TLCV9-12           A/L5.04
                                                                                                                                                                              0.3 gpm   0.3 gpm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ROCKY MOUNTAIN JUNIPER                         (2) 5-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      PCT05 (BEIGE)        E/L5.02

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SKINNY GENES® OAK                              TREE DRIP RING           NETAFIM               TLCV9-12           A/L5.04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SPRING SNOW CRABAPPLE                          TREE DRIP RING           NETAFIM               TLCV9-12           A/L5.04

                                                                                       FUTURE RETAIL                                                                                                                                    FUTURE RETAIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AIRBRUSH EFFECT HARDY HIBISCUS                 (1) 2-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      XBT20 (RED)          D/L5.02


                                                                                           PAD 4                                                                             0.3 gpm    0.3 gpm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PAD 5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ATLAS FESCUE                                   (1) 1-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION     XBT10 (BLACK)         D/L5.02

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BLANKET FLOWER                                 (1) 2-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      XBT20 (RED)          D/L5.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BLONDE AMBITION BLUE GRAMA GRASS               (1) 2-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      XBT20 (RED)          D/L5.02

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BLUE OAT GRASS                                 (1) 2-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      XBT20 (RED)          D/L5.02

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BROADMOOR JUNIPER                              (1) 2-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      XBT20 (RED)          D/L5.02

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DWARF RUBBER RABBITBRUSH                       (1) 2-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      XBT20 (RED)          D/L5.02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                              0.3 gpm   0.3 gpm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GRO-LOW FRAGRANT SUMAC                         (1) 2-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      XBT20 (RED)          D/L5.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IGI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HARDY PAMPUS GRASS                             (1) 2-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      XBT20 (RED)          D/L5.02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JELENA WITCH HAZEL                             (1) 5-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      PCT05 (BEIGE)        D/L5.02

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JOHNSON'S BLUE CRANESBILL                      (1) 1-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION     XBT10 (BLACK)         D/L5.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PANCHITO MANZANITA                             (1) 2-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      XBT20 (RED)          D/L5.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PRAIRIE SMOKE                                  (1) 1-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION     XBT10 (BLACK)         D/L5.02

                                                                                       RODEO WAY DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RED TWIG DOGWOOD                               (1) 2-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      XBT20 (RED)          D/L5.02

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ROCKY MOUNTAIN BEARDTONGUE                     (1) 2-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      XBT20 (RED)          D/L5.02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ROSE OF SHARON                                 (1) 2-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      XBT20 (RED)          D/L5.02

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SASKATOON SERVICEBERRY                         (1) 2-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      XBT20 (RED)          D/L5.02

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SCHIPKA LAUREL                                 (1) 2-GPM Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      XBT20 (RED)          D/L5.02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STEPPSUNS SUNSET GLOW PENSTEMON                (1) 1-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION     XBT10 (BLACK)         D/L5.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TIGER EYES SUMAC                               (2) 2-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      XBT20 (RED)          D/L5.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT NO:                             23301.E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WYOMING BIG SAGEBRUSH                          (1) 2-GPH Emitter   RAINBIRD IRRIGATION      XBT20 (RED)          D/L5.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DRAWN BY:                                           TG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CHECKED BY:                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GENERAL NOTE                                                                                                                  DATE:                     01/21/26
                                                                                                      NORTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.REFER TO IRRIGATION NOTES ON SHEET L0.01                                                                                    SUBMISSION: ISSUE FOR BID
AVOID CUTTING UNDERGROUND
    UTILITIES. IT'S COSTLY.                                                        NOTICE!
                                                                                                                                                       0                          20      40                               60 ft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LANDSCAPE
                                                             THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IRRIGATION
        BEFORE YOU
                                                             RESPONSIBLE FOR THE LOCATION,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PLAN
                                                             PROTECTION, AND RESTORATION
                                                             OF ALL BURIED OR ABOVE
                                                             GROUND UTILITIES, SHOWN OR
                                                             NOT SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
       1-800-662-4111


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      L3.01
                                                                                      SUNSET DRIVE

                                                                                                                                                        PAVING SCHEDULE
                                                                                                                                                            SYMBOL            AREA               DESCRIPTION                 SIZE               COLOR         DETAIL


                                                                                                                                                                                             'HOLLAND' BRICK PAVERS
                                                                                                                                                                             556 S.F.       FROM BELGARD - RUNNING    4" x 8" (80mm THICK)    ROSEWOOD        H/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                     BOND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3' x 3' SQUARE
                                                                                                                                                                            1,883 S.F.      SPECIAL PAVING IN PLAZA   DIAGONAL SCORE          DUNE SMOOTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                     AREAS                   JOINTS          (DAVIS COLORS)




                                                                                                                                                                                              POOL SURFACE - SEE
                                                                                                                                                                            22,529 S.F.     ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                               FOR DETAILS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                SPECIFICATIONS




                                                                                                                                                        LIGHTING SCHEDULE
                                                                                                                                                         SYMBOL      QTY.                    DESCRIPTION                      MANUFACTURER


                                                                                                                                                                     22            ILLUMINATED IMPACT BOLLARD             SEE ELECTRICAL PLAN



                                                                                                                                   POOL                              16                   UP-LIGHTS AT TREE               SEE ELECTRICAL PLAN




                                                                                                                                                                      4                   VEHICULAR LIGHTING              SEE ELECTRICAL PLAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   02/03/2026




                                                                               LIFE TIME




                                                                                                                                   POOL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1975 E. RODEO WALK DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LIFE TIME - HOLLADAY


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HOLLADAY, UTAH
                                                                                                                               X
                                                                                                                           X




                                                                                                                                                   AD
                                                                                                                                                 RO
                                                                                                                                                 E
                                                                                                                                               IR
                                                                                                                                             SH
                                                                                                                                           IL
                                                                                                                                          W
                                             FUTURE RETAIL                                     FUTURE RETAIL
                                                 PAD 4                                             PAD 5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                       G
                                                                                                                    IGI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REVISIONS
                                                                                                                    IG
                                                                                                               IG




                                             RODEO WAY DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT NO:                             23301.E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRAWN BY:                                           TG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHECKED BY:                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DATE:                     01/21/26
                                                              NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SUBMISSION: ISSUE FOR BID
AVOID CUTTING UNDERGROUND
    UTILITIES. IT'S COSTLY.            NOTICE!
                                                                      0   20   40      60 ft                                                                                                                                                                                                 LANDSCAPE
                              THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SITE DESIGN
       BEFORE YOU
                              RESPONSIBLE FOR THE LOCATION,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PLAN
                              PROTECTION, AND RESTORATION
                              OF ALL BURIED OR ABOVE
                              GROUND UTILITIES, SHOWN OR
                              NOT SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
       1-800-662-4111


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L4.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LIGHT FIXTURE SCHEDULE - SITE PHOTOMETRIC
                                                                                  FIXTURE NOTES:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GENERAL NOTES
                                                                            1.    IF SUBSTITUTE FIXTURE IS PROPOSED, A PHOTOMETRIC PLAN CONVEYING SIMILAR ILLUMINANCE LEVELS, UNIFORMITY, AND LIGHT TRESPASS SHALL BE PROVIDED IN ADDITION TO FIXTURE CUTSHEETS INDICATING THAT BI-LEVEL SWITCHING IS ACHIEVABLE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A. LIGHT LEVELS SHOWN ARE MAINTAINED. LIGHT LOSS FACTOR OF 0.85 WAS APPLIED TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LAMPS                                                                                                                                                                         ACCOUNT FOR LUMEN DEPRECIATION.
                                                                                  TYPE                                                                                                                                                DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                        VOLT                                                VA / FIXT.         MANUFACTURER                                   CATALOG NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TYPE              QTY / FIXT.
                                                                                    P1         EXTERIOR LIGHT POLE AND HEAD, DIE-CAST ALUMINUM FIXTURE HOUSING, ACRYLIC LENS. 4" STRAIGHT SQUARE STEEL POLE WITH BASE COVER. FIXTURE AND POLE TO BE DARK BRONZE FINISH. SINGLE HEAD. 18'-0" POLE. TYPE FORWARD THROW MEDIUM DISTRIBUTION. 0-10V DIMMABLE. INTERNAL HOUSE SIDE                            UNIV              LED 4000K              N/A           466       LITHONIA                       DSX2-LED-P8-40K-80CRI-TFTM-MVOLT-SPA-DMG-HS-DDBXD                                                   B. LIGHT POLES TO BE LOCATED NO CLOSER THAN 2'-0" FROM FACE OF CURBS.                        2900 CORPORATE PLACE
                                                                                               SHIELD. 58000 LUMEN PACKAGE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CHANHASSEN, MN 55317
                                                                                    P2         EXTERIOR LIGHT POLE AND (2) HEADS, DIE-CAST ALUMINUM FIXTURE HOUSING, ACRYLIC LENS. 4" STRAIGHT SQUARE STEEL POLE WITH BASE COVER. FIXTURE AND POLE TO BE DARK BRONZE FINISH. DOUBLE HEAD. 18'-0" POLE. TYPE FORWARD THROW MEDIUM DISTRIBUTION. 0-10V DIMMABLE. INTERNAL HOUSE SIDE                       UNIV              LED 4000K              N/A           932       LITHONIA                       (2 HEADS)                                                                                           C. FIXTURE OUTPUT:
                                                                                               SHIELD. 58000 LUMEN PACKAGE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DSX2-LED-P8-40K-80CRI-TFTM-MVOLT-SPA-DMG-HS-DDBXD                                                      DUSK-9PM: FULL OUTPUT.                                                          CONSULTANT
                                                                                   Q4X         LED EXTERIOR WALL MOUNT AREA LIGHT WITH INTEGRAL MOTION SENSOR/AMBIENT LIGHT SENSOR. DARK BRONZE IN COLOR. TYPE 3 DISTRIBUTION. 3880 LUMEN LED. FACTORY DEFAULT TO 37% LIGHT OUTPUT WHEN SPACE IS VACANT FOR 15 MINUTES. INTEGRAL EMERGENCY 20-WATT BATTERY BACKUP.                                       UNIV           LED 3000K                 N/A           29        LITHONIA                       DSXW1-LED-P4-30K-70CRI-T3M-MVOLT-SRM-PIR-DDBXD                                                         DUSK TO 15 MINUTES AFTER BUSINESS CLOSE: FULL OUTPUT.
                                                                                   R2          SUSPENDED DECORATIVE STRING LIGHT SYSTEM. BLACK PHENOLIC MEDIUM BASE UL WEATHERPROOF LAMPHOLDER WITH HOOK, 12/2 GA. BLACK FLEXIBLE WIRE RATED FOR 25A MAX, UV RATED FOR OUTDOOR USE. 1/16" AIRCRAFT CATENARY CABLE SUPPORTS THE SYSTEM, 480 LB. TEST. WARM WHITE LED GLOBE                                 120         PLED-G25-2700K           SEE PLANS        4         PRIMUS LIGHTING                DSW-36-120-PLED-G25-27K-DSC7-DBZ-LENGTHS TBD                                                           15 MINUTES AFTER BUSINESS CLOSE TO DAWN: OUTPUT REDUCED TO 50%.
                                                                                               LAMPS, 7"x3" CONE SHADE, DARK BRONZE IN COLOR (POLYESTER POWDER COATED). 36" ON-CENTER LAMP SPACING. FIELD VERIFY EXACT LENGTHS PRIOR TO ORDER, FACTORING IN ELEVATION CHANGE; FIXTURE/LAMP QUANTITIES ARE STRAIGHT-LINE.
                                                                                    R6         LED DECORATIVE BOLLARD. DISTIBUTION TYPE 5. 42" HEIGHT. DARK BRONZE TEXTURED HOUSING FINISH.                                                                                                                                                                                                              UNIV            LED 3000K                N/A           22        KIM LIGHTING                   PA7R-CT-NU-5-12L-020-3K7-42A-DBT-UNV                                                                D. Q4X FIXTURES ARE USED FOR EMERGENCY EGRESS AND ARE FED FROM AN EMERGENCY
                                                                                   R6X         SAME AS TYPE 'R6' ABOVE, EXCEPT 'X' DENOTES 14 WATT EMERGENCY BATTERY PACK, 90-MINUTE RUN TIME.                                                                                                                                                                                                           UNIV            LED 3000K                N/A           22        KIM LIGHTING                   PA7R-CT-NU-5-12L-020-3K7-42A-DBT-UNV                                                                   LIGHTING INVERTER PROVIDING 90 MINUTES OF BACKUP WHEN POWER IS LOST.
                                                                                   R7          LED ACCENT LIGHTING FOR POOL AREA. BLACK HOUSING FINISH. 2" NIPPLE. PROVIDE SUPPORT MOUNT ARLINGTON IND. GARD-N-POST #GP19B.                                                                                                                                                                              UNIV            LED 3000K                N/A           21        HK LIGHTING                    ZXL20-IR1SC-ABL-UNIV21W-30W-30M-CGSA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E. ALL FIXTURES TYPE R7 ARE MOUNTED AT GRADE AND ARE AIMED AT EITHER UMBRELLAS
                                                                                   XH2         24V FLEXIBLE LED TAPE, PROVIDE LENGTHS AS SHOWN ON PLAN. EACH 55 FOOT RUN REQUIRES SEPARATE CONDUCTORS TO DRIVER. FURNISH COMPLETE WITH DRIVERS AND CONNECTORS. INSTALL SO NO SHADOWING IS VISIBLE. 0-10V DIMMABLE. 1.5W/FT.                                                                              UNIV         3100K LED TAPE              N/A           2         TUBE LIGHTING                  (TAPE) DSHWL-1.5-24V-W31; (CHANNEL) DSH-EX-ALUM                                                        OR TREES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PRODUCTS
                                                                                   XP1         EXTERIOR LIGHT POLE AND HEAD, SPUN ALUMINUM FIXTURE HOUSING, SILICONE MICRO OPTICS. 4" STRAIGHT SQUARE STEEL POLE WITH BASE COVER. FIXTURE AND POLE TO BE DARK BRONZE FINISH. SINGLE HEAD. 20'-0" POLE. TYPE 3 DISTRIBUTION. INTEGRAL PHOTOCELL CONTROL.                                                  UNIV              LED 4000K              N/A           56        NLS LIGHTING                   HRZ-1-T3-32L-53-40K-UNV-PT3-BLK-PC


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0          0.0              0.0        0.0         0.0            0.0     0.0         0.0     0.0         0.1         0.1      0.1          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0          0.0              0.0        0.0         0.0            0.0     0.0         0.1     0.0         0.1         0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1         0.0      0.0            0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0          0.0              0.0        0.0         0.0            0.0     0.0         0.0     0.1         0.1         0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1         0.1          0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1     0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0


                  EXTERIOR POOL CALCULATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0          0.1              0.1        0.0         0.0            0.0     0.1         0.1     0.1         0.2         0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1         0.1          0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1     0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                  Label                                                   CalcType                                          Units                            Avg                    Max          Min          Avg/Min                Max/Min
                  LAP POOL AQ111                                          Illuminance                                       Fc                               14.85                  29.3         10.6         1.40                   2.76
                  LEISURE POOL AQ122                                      Illuminance                                       Fc                               13.61                  29.0         10.0         1.36                   2.90                        0.0    0.0        0.0        0.0     0.1       0.1          0.1              0.1        0.1         0.1            0.1     0.1         0.1     0.1         0.2         0.2      0.2          0.2          0.2         0.2          0.2        0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1     0.1    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.0        0.0        0.1     0.1       0.1          0.1              0.1        0.1         0.1            0.1     0.2         0.2     0.3         0.3         0.3      0.3          0.3          0.3         0.3          0.3        0.2       0.2       0.1        0.1     0.1    0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.0        0.0        0.1     0.1       0.1          0.1              0.2        0.2         0.2            0.3     0.5         0.5     0.5         0.6         0.7      0.7          0.7          0.6         0.5          0.4        0.3       0.2       0.2        0.1     0.1    0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.0        0.0        0.1     0.1       0.3          0.2              0.3        0.5         0.4            0.8     1.6         0.1     0.1         1.4         0.2      0.3          0.5          0.4         0.4          0.3        0.2       0.2       0.1        0.1     0.1    0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.0        0.0        0.1     0.4       6.0          1.8              0.5        5.1         2.8            1.6     3.3         0.0     0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0          1.0          1.0         0.7      0.5            0.4       0.3       0.2        0.1     0.1    0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R6X                                   R6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R7              R7                R7                  R7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.0        0.0        0.1     0.4       5.3          1.7              0.8        3.7         2.3            2.9     5.1         0.0     0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0          1.6          2.3         1.6      1.2            0.6       0.4       0.3        0.2     0.1    0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                         Q4X                              Q4X                                                                                    Q4X Q4X
                                                                                                                                                                           26'-0"                             120"                                                                            120"    23'-11"        R6X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R7                             R7                                                                                          R7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.2              5.4        8.4         4.4            10.4    8.2         0.0     0.0         0.8         0.0      0.0          4.9          10.3        5.0      7.0            2.1       0.5       0.3        0.2     0.1    0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R6                 R6X                        R6X                                                                                        R6X                R6X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HOLLADAY, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1975 East Rodeo Drive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.2              3.8        7.9         6.9            13.6    14.1        12.9    11.4        10.6        10.5     12.0         13.7         15.4        8.4      9.6            2.8       0.6       0.3        0.2     0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P1                  R6X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LIFE TIME -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SH-2                                 R6        R7        P1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9              1.6        7.9         16.4           16.8    17.5        15.4    12.6        11.5        11.8     13.7         16.5         14.6        5.4      5.1            1.7       0.7       0.4        0.2     0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Hollady, Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SH-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.4              2.1        3.5         6.7            12.2    16.5        15.1    12.8        11.6        11.6     13.2         14.5         13.0        8.1      2.8            1.1       0.7       0.4        0.2     0.2    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R7                                                                                                                                  R7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SH-4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6.4              9.0        3.6         4.9            9.0     13.1        12.8    11.8        11.0        11.0     11.8         12.5         10.8        7.8      5.2            1.5       0.7       0.4        0.3     0.2    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R7                                            R7                                                                                                                                   R7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.9              3.8        4.1         5.7            8.7     11.6        11.5    11.2        10.6        10.9     11.5         11.7         10.7        8.1      5.3            2.7       0.7       0.4        0.3     0.2    0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Q4X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                120"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3.7              4.1        5.3         6.9            9.8     12.1        11.5    11.1        11.6        11.4     11.9         12.2         11.2        8.6      5.7            3.0       1.0       0.5        0.3     0.2    0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R7                                                                                                                                   R7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R7           R6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7.4              9.5        5.3         9.1            12.5    14.3        13.6    14.9        14.4        13.4     13.3         13.9         12.4        9.1      6.3            2.5       1.0       0.6        0.4     0.3    0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R7                                                                                                                                   R7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.4              3.2        4.2         11.5           19.1    19.7        20.3    18.0        17.7        18.4     17.6         17.1         15.1        10.6     5.0            1.9       1.2       0.7        0.4     0.3    0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.8              3.1        8.6         18.1           28.9    28.7        24.0    21.0        20.7        21.5     24.0         24.1         22.2        12.1     4.4            2.4       1.3       0.7        0.4     0.3    0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R7   P2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P2      R7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.7              2.7        6.5         15.8           26.6    25.7        23.3    21.0        21.0        22.2     25.7         30.6         31.5        13.0     5.4            2.9       1.4       0.8        0.4     0.3    0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAWING LOG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R6             R7        R6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REV       DATE          DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.0              2.5        7.0         15.3           20.9    16.9        17.3    18.0        18.3        19.6     23.1         24.0         22.4        12.3     4.6            2.5       1.4       0.8        0.4     0.3    0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.3              7.7        5.9         7.9            10.6    11.8        11.7    13.2        14.7        16.2     16.3         16.7         15.3        10.8     5.0            2.0       1.2       0.7        0.4     0.3    0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                120"               R6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Q4X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.9              5.9        4.4         6.0            8.3     10.3        10.2    10.3        11.7        11.9     12.4         13.5         12.3        9.2      6.4            2.5       1.0       0.6        0.4     0.3    0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R7 R6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7.3              9.3        3.4         4.6            7.2     10.2        10.3    10.1        10.2        10.7     11.5         12.0         11.2        8.6      5.7            3.1       0.9       0.4        0.3     0.2    0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                         120"
                                                                                                                                                       Q4X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.9              2.2        2.7         3.9            7.2     11.0        11.2    10.9        10.4        10.5     11.4         11.7         10.8        8.0      5.5            2.5       0.7       0.4        0.3     0.2    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.7        2.9         4.4            8.4     13.8        13.2    11.8        10.9        11.1     12.0         13.1         11.1        8.1      4.6            1.3       0.6       0.4        0.2     0.2    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Q4X                                                                                                                                                          R7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  120"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.6        5.3         12.0           15.2    17.0        15.3    12.6        11.5        11.7     13.7         15.4         13.9        7.5      2.1            1.2       0.7       0.4        0.2     0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.3        4.7         10.8           15.5    15.9        14.3    12.2        11.3        11.6     13.4         16.2         15.4        5.0      2.4            1.4       0.7       0.4        0.2     0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R6         R7   R6
                                                                                                                                                         120"                                                                                                                                                                                 1.1        6.8         10.5           6.6     12.2        10.6    10.2        10.0        10.0     11.2         11.6         13.4        8.2 R7   7.9            1.5       0.6       0.3        0.2     0.1    0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                       Q4X                                                                                                                    R2                                                                                                                                                                                                              R6X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (TYP.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R6X
0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0         0.0    0.0       0.0            0.0          0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0   0.0        0.2    2.5        1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   F2         1.2     0.9       1.3          1.4              1.1        1.5         2.0            4.1     6.7         7.3     7.9         8.1         8.2      7.1          5.1     R7 10.4          11.5     9.2            1.3       0.5       0.3        0.2     0.1    0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R6X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R6X                                                    R6
0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0         0.0    0.0       0.0            0.0          0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0   0.3        0.9    5.4        3.7        1.5     1.5       1.7          7.4              4.8        1.7         1.5            2.1     4.4         4.7     5.0         5.7         5.5      3.5          2.8          3.4         8.2      1.7            0.7       0.4       0.2        0.2     0.1    0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                XH2                                                                                                                                                                                R7            R7                R7             R7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                XH2                                                        R6X                                                                 R6X                  R6X
0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   1.4        1.4     0.1          1.2        1.7     0.1       0.1         0.3    0.1       0.1            0.0          0.0        0.1 R7 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   R7   0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.1   4.3        8.7    4.1        3.6        1.0     1.3       1.0          1.7              4.1        9.0         6.7            1.4     2.5         2.6     2.7         2.8         2.4      2.1          1.9          1.5         1.2      0.8            0.5       0.3       0.2        0.1     0.1    0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                XH2                                         R6
                                                                           R7     R7                                                                                                                                                       R7    R7
                                                               R6                              R6                                                                                                                                                                  R6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE
                                                                                                            R7                                                                            XH2                   XH2
0.0   0.0   0.1      0.1         0.1   0.0   0.0   0.1   4.5        4.1     0.2          3.3        5.2     0.2 R7 2.7            5.7    0.9       4.5            0.3          0.4        3.7    0.3    0.0      0.0       0.1       1.0        0.9   1.0        6.2    4.3        1.3        0.4     1.0       1.5          0.4              1.0        3.1         1.3            1.9     1.2         1.0     1.1         1.3         3.0      1.3          1.1          0.9         0.7      0.5            0.4       0.3       0.2        0.1     0.1    0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                             R6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BY ACCEPTING THIS MATERIAL, THE
                                                                                                                                                             R7     R7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RECIPIENT ACKNOWLEDGES AND
                                                                                                                                                  R6                                 R6   XH2                                                                                      R7    R7                     R7     R7                           R6                          R6         R7   R7                    R7     R7         R6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AGREES THAT THE INFORMATION
0.0   0.0   0.1      0.2         0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.5        0.5     0.3          0.4        0.5     0.4       0.9         1.9    1.1       6.2            0.4          0.8        5.7    0.8    0.1      0.8       1.1       6.6 R6 5.7       0.2        0.4    6.6 R6     5.5        0.3     4.2 R6 6.1             0.4              2.5        2.6         0.9            3.6     3.0         0.4     0.5         2.1         0.9      2.0          0.7          0.5         0.5          0.4        0.3       0.2       0.1        0.1     0.1    0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                                                                    CONTAINED HEREIN IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONFIDENTIAL AND SHALL NOT BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DISCLOSED, DISTRIBUTED, OR
0.0   0.0   0.1      0.3         0.5   0.7   0.9   1.0   1.3        1.3     1.1          0.9        0.9     0.8       0.6         0.4    0.3       0.3            0.2          0.2        0.4    0.3    1.1      7.3       12.1      7.0        0.6   0.2        0.2    0.4        0.4        0.2     0.4       0.7          0.5              0.7        1.0         0.4            0.7     0.4         0.4     0.4         0.6         1.6      1.0          2.5          0.4         0.3          0.2        0.2       0.2       0.1        0.1     0.1    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                                                                    OTHERWISE TRANSMITTED IN ANY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R6   R6   R6   R6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WAY WITHOUT THE EXPRESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WRITTEN CONSENT OF LIFE TIME,
0.0   0.0   0.1      0.3         0.5   0.6   0.7   1.0   1.8        1.8     1.1          0.8        0.8     0.9       0.8         0.8    0.8       1.0            1.2          1.1        0.8    0.8    0.9      4.2       5.3       2.1        0.6   0.6        0.7    0.9        1.0        0.9     0.8       0.8          0.9              1.0        0.9         0.8            0.9     1.2         1.2     1.0         0.9         0.9      2.0          0.7          0.3         0.2          0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1     0.1    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                                                                    INC., OR ITS SUBSIDIARIES (“LT”).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              THIS MATERIAL AND INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REMAINS THE SOLE PROPERTY OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LT AND LT RESERVES THE RIGHT
0.0   0.0   0.0      0.1         0.1   0.2   0.2   0.4   1.2 XP11.3         0.4          0.2        0.3     0.5       0.6         0.7    0.8       1.3            1.8          1.5        0.9    0.7    0.7      2.8       3.6       1.5        0.7   0.8        0.9    1.3        1.6        1.2     0.9       0.8          0.9              0.9        0.8         0.8            1.1     1.7         1.8     1.2         0.9         0.8      0.6          0.4          0.2         0.1          0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1     0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TO REQUIRE ITS RETURN AT ANY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R6   R6   R6   R6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TIME. THE RECIPIENT AGREES TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DEFEND AND INDEMNIFY LT FROM
0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1        0.1     0.0          0.0        0.1     0.1       0.2         0.2    0.4       0.9 XP1 1.9                 1.2        0.5    0.3    1.2      6.8       14.5      8.7        0.4   0.4        0.7    1.6        2.4        1.3     0.6       0.4          0.4              0.4        0.3         0.4            0.8     1.8         1.8     0.8         0.4         0.3      0.3          0.2          0.1         0.1          0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1        0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                                                                    ANY DAMAGES OR LOSSES ARISING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XP1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OUT OF THE UNAUTHORIZED USE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 XP1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OR DISCLOSURE OF THE
0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0         0.0    0.0       0.1            0.1          0.1        0.0    0.0    0.1      1.2       1.6       0.5        0.1   0.0        0.1    0.1        0.1        0.1     0.1       0.1          0.1              0.1        0.1         0.1            0.1     0.1         0.2     0.1         0.1         0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1         0.1      0.0            0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                                                                    INFORMATION.


0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0         0.0    0.0       0.0            0.0          0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0       0.1       0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0          0.0              0.0        0.0         0.0            0.0     0.1         0.1     0.1         0.1         0.1      0.1          0.1          0.0         0.0      0.0            0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROFESSIONAL OF RECORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THIS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PHOTOMETRIC SITE PLAN
0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0         0.0    0.0       0.0            0.0          0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0          0.0              0.0        0.0         0.0            0.0     0.0         0.0     0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                                                                    PLAN, SPECIFICATION, OR REPORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WAS PREPARED BY ME OR UNDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MY DIRECT SUPERVISION AND
0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0         0.0    0.0       0.0            0.0          0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0          0.0              0.0        0.0         0.0            0.0     0.0         0.0     0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                                                                    THAT I AM A DULY REGISTERED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER UNDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF:
0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0         0.0    0.0       0.0            0.0          0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0          0.0              0.0        0.0         0.0            0.0     0.0         0.0     0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                                                                    UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NAME                  REG. NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MATTHEW W. FULTS          5736286

0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0         0.0    0.0       0.0            0.0          0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0          0.0              0.0        0.0         0.0            0.0     0.0         0.0     0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                                                                     EXP DATE: 03/31/2027
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STAMP
0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0         0.0    0.0       0.0            0.0          0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0          0.0              0.0        0.0         0.0            0.0     0.0         0.0     0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2/9/26


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT #: 2409.0278
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ISSUE DATE 02/09/2026
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET NO.




       1 PHOTOMETRIC SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PUBLICATIONS
            SCALE: 1" = 20'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHEET IS FOR PERMITTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PURPOSES ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ISSUE FOR PERMIT/BID
BLOCK I - SOUTHWEST CORNER VIEW FROM RODEO
BLOCK I - NORTHWEST CORNER VIEW FROM RODEO
BLOCK H RETAIL BUILDING
                                                                                                      MATERIAL LEGEND
                                                         LIFETIME ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                             MASONRY BAND
                                                                                                      1      METROBRICK
                                                                                                             COLOR BLEND 4




                      5 4       5       4           5       8                               3   5 7
                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                             MASONRY  BAND
                                                                                                             BASE BUILDING
                                                                                                             METROBRICK
                                                                                                             DRYVIT OUTSULATION SYSTEM
 TO ENTRY PARAPET                                                                                            COLOR
                                                                                                             COLOR:BLEND  432 GROUND
                                                                                                                    NEUTRAL
 145' - 2"                                                                                                               ON
                                                                                                                         ON

 TO PARAPET
 138' - 8"

 BO SOFFIT
                                                                                                             BUILDING ACCENT 1
                                                                                                      3      BASE BUILDING
 134' - 8"
 BO LIGHT COVE
 134' - 2"
                                                                                                      2      DRIVIT OUTSULATION SYSTEM
                                                                                                             DRYVIT OUTSULATION SYSTEM
                                                                                                             COLOR: SHIITAKE
                                                                                                             COLOR: NEUTRAL GROUND



 BO WDW
                                                                                                             BUILDING ACCENT 2
                                                                                                      4
 117' - 8"
                                                                                                             BUILDING ACCENT 1
                                                                                                      3      DRIVIT OUTSULATION SYSTEM
 SECOND FLOOR
 116' - 4"
                                                                                                             DRIVIT OUTSULATION SYSTEM
 TO BISTRO PARAPET                                                                                           COLOR: MATCH DARK BRONZE
 113' - 10"                                                                                                  COLOR: SHIITAKE
 TO PRECAST SILL
 111' - 4"
 BO BISTRO PARAPET
 110' - 11 3/4"




                                                                                                             BUILDING ACCENT
                                                                                                             BUILDING ACCENT 32
 FIRST FLOOR
 100' - 0"                                                                                            5
                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                      5      DRIVIT OUTSULATION
                                                                                                             DRIVIT
                                                                                                             COLOR:
                                                                                                                    OUTSULATION SYSTEM
                                                                                                                     ACCESSIBLE
                                                                                                                                SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                BEIGE
                                                                                                             COLOR: MATCH DARK BRONZE


                                        3   9 4 2       9           9 1
                                                                          SOUTH ELEVATION                   GREEN  WALLACCENT 3
                                                                                                              BUILDING
                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                      5     MFG:
                                                                                                              DRIVIT
                                                                                                            TYPE:
                                                                                                                 VISTAFOLIA
                                                                                                                     OUTSULATION SYSTEM
                                                                                                                  LUXURY FLOWERING
                                                                                                              COLOR: ACCESSIBLE     BOXWOOD
                                                                                                                                BEIGE




                                                                                                              ALUMINUM
                                                                                                                   WALL WINDOWS / DOORS
                                                                                                      7
                                                                                                            GREEN
                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                      7       KAWNEER
                                                                                                            MFG: VISTAFOLIA
                                                                                                              COLOR:
                                                                                                            TYPE:    DARKFLOWERING
                                                                                                                  LUXURY   BRONZE BOXWOOD




                                                                                                            WINDOW  SILLS
                                                                                                      8
                                                                                                              ALUMINUM  WINDOWS / DOORS
                                                                                                      7     MFG: ADVANCED
                                                                                                              KAWNEER
                                                                                                            COLOR: SAND
                                                                                                              COLOR: DARK
                                                                                                                           ARCHITECTURAL STONE
                                                                                                                         DRIFT
                                                                                                                           BRONZE



                            3               4                   5                  5
                                                                                                            WINDOW SILLS
                                                                                                      9
                                                                                                      8
  TO ENTRY PARAPET
  145' - 2"                                                                                                 MFG: ADVANCED ARCHITECTURAL STONE
                                                                                                            COLOR: SAND DRIFT
  TO PARAPET
  138' - 8"

  BO SOFFIT
  134' - 8"
  BO LIGHT COVE
  134' - 2"




  BO WDW
  117' - 8"
  SECOND FLOOR
  116' - 4"
  TO BISTRO PARAPET
  113' - 10"
  TO PRECAST SILL
  111' - 4"
  BO BISTRO PARAPET
  110' - 11 3/4"




  FIRST FLOOR
  100' - 0"




                                    9           5                   1     8       2
                                                        WEST ELEVATION


                                                                              Holladay, UT
Material Board
01/23/26
10/30/2025 11:19:24 AM
                                                                                                                                           1                                                                           2                                                                             3                                           4                                                                 5




                                                                                                                                               A4                                                                 A3                                                               A2                                                  A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                        139'-1"                                                                                                                                                                    GENERAL NOTES - ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                        T.O.W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.   PROVIDE SEALANT AT ALL JOINTS WHERE DIFFERENT MATERIALS MEET. SEAL FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MANUFACTURER'S WARRANTY AND REQUIREMENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.   REFERENCE ALL DASHED RECTANGLES FOR APPROXIMATE LOCATION OF FUTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TENANT PROVIDED SIGNAGE - CONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE STUB CONDUITS TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EACH FUTURE SIGNAGE LOCATION - LOCATION OF STUB CONDUITS TBD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CORPORATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (801) 485-7770
                                                                                                                                                                         A4     C5                                                                 B5           A1                                            1                                                3.   THE BUILDING SHALL HAVE APPROVED ADDRESS NUMBERS, BUILDING NUMBERS,
                                                                                                                                        125'-7"                          A310   A300                                                               A300       A310                                           A300                                                   OR APPROVED BUILDING IDENTIFICATION PLACED IN A POSITION TO BE PLAINLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LEGIBLE AND VISIBLE FROM THE STREET OR ROAD FRONTING THE PROPERTY.
                                                                                                                                        T.O.W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    THESE NUMBERS SHALL CONTRAST WITH THEIR BACKGROUND. ADDRESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NUMBERS SHALL BE A MINIMUM OF 4 INCHES HIGH WITH A MINIMUM STROKE
                                                                                                                        D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2733 EAST PARLEYS WAY, SUITE 300
                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WIDTH OF 0.5 INCH.
                                                                                                                                   122'-1"                                                                                             TYP.                                                                                                                    4.   IN ORDER TO PROVIDE EMERGENCY ACCESS FOR FIRE DIVISION OPERATIONS, AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                D3                                                                                                                                  APPROVED LOCKED KEY BOX SHALL BE PROVIDED FOR THE BUSINESS. THE KEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BOX SHALL BE INSTALLED AT THE DESIGNATED FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS POINT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84109
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9'+ MOUNTING HIGH. THE KEY BOX SHALL CONTAIN THE NECESSARY KEYS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NEEDED TO GAIN ACCESS TO THE BUSINESS DURING AN EMERGENCY AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REQUIRED BY THE CHIEF. THE HOLLADAY FIRE DIVISION IS CURRENTLY
                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REGISTERED WITH THE KNOX BOX RAPID ENTRY SYSTEM. NO OTHER SYSTEM OR
                                                                                                                                   111'-4"                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COMPANIES PROVIDING THIS SERVICE ARE ACCEPTABLE FOR USE WITHIN THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.70°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CITY OF HOLLADAY. YOU MAY CHOOSE AN APPROPRIATE BOX BY GOING TO
                                                                                                                                                                                             B1                                                                                                                                                                     WWW.KNOXBOX.COM ENTERING CODE: 84117, AND SELECTING "UNIFIED FIRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AUTHORITY." PLEASE CALL THE HOLLADAY FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU AT ***-****
                                                                                                                                                                                            A710                                                                                                                                                                    FOR ANY QUESTIONS REGARDING THIS FIRE CODE REQUIREMENT. (506.1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5.   ALL CONCRETE BARRIER WALLS WILL BE A MINIMUM OF 42" ABOVE TOP OF SLAB
                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6.   HORIZONTAL SCORING ON SHEAR WALLS WILL ALIGN WITH TOP OF SLAB AND TOP
                                                                                                                                   100'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OF BARRIER WALL AT 3'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7.   4" TALL ADDRESS NUMBER TO BE CONFIRMED WITH THE AHJ PRIOR TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INSTALLATION. THIS WILL BE OWNER FURNISHED AND OWNER INSTALLED


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FINISHES - ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.   PROVIDE SEALANT AT ALL JOINTS WHERE DIFFERENT MATERIALS MEET. SEAL FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MANUFACTURER'S WARRANTY AND REQUIREMENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.   REFERENCE ALL DASHED RECTANGLES FOR APPROXIMATE LOCATION OF FUTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TENANT PROVIDED SIGNAGE - CONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE STUB CONDUITS TO
                                                                                                                            D1     WEST ELEVATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EACH FUTURE SIGNAGE LOCATION - LOCATION OF STUB CONDUITS TBD
                                                                                                                            A200    3/32" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DATE
                                                                                                                        C




                                                                                                                                                    15          14                     13          12                      11                 10                     9                   8               7                    6   5         4        3    2                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A301
                                                                                                                                                         A3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                # REVISION DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                         A311
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GHOST RAMP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         127'-6 1/2"

                                                                                                                                 LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                 122'-1"




                                                                                                                                 LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                 111'-4"




                                                                                                                                 LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                 100'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HH BLOCK I PARKING STRUCTURE
C:\Users\dawson.robb-wilcox\Documents\Block I Parking Structure v25 - ADJ_dawson.robb-wilcox_Hybrid Level Concept.rvt




                                                                                                                            B1     NORTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                            A200    3/32" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                        B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1925 S REDTAIL HAWK BAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HOLLADAY, UTAH 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HOLLADAY HILLS
                                                                                                                                                                     1                  2           3                       4                  5                     6                    7              8                    9   10        11       12   13                           14        15

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3                   A3                  A5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A301                 A310            A310

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          125'-7"                                                                                                                                                             SEE CIVIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FOR GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ELEVATIONS

                                                                                                                                               LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                               122'-1"




                                                                                                                                               LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                               111'-4"                                                                                                                                 TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A600                                                                                                                  GEOFOAM @
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      STAIRS SEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       STRUCT'L

                                                                                                                                               LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                               100'-0"
                                                                                                                        A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ELEVATIONS

                                                                                                                            A1     SOUTH ELEVATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROJ. #: 1725.3800
                                                                                                                            A200    3/32" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DATE: 10/03/2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DRAWN BY: DRW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SCALE: As indicated

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BID SET


                                                                                                                                           1                                                                           2                                                                             3                                           4                                                                 5                                                      A200
                                                                                                                                                                 10'-3"

APPENDIX A: Project Sign Criteria




                                                                                                                                      4'-6"
                                                                                                   MEASUREMENTS
                11'-2"                                                                             OVERALL SIGN: 22’H20'Hx x12’11'-2"W
                                                                                                                                3”W
                 9'-0"                                                                             SIGNBOX:    4'-6"H
                                                                                                             4’H  x 9’  x 9'W
                                                                                                                       11”W
                                                                                                   LIFE TIME SIGNBOX: 4’ 8”H x 10’ 10”W
                                                                                                   LIFE TIME LOGO: 7’ 9” wide




                                                                                                                                          3'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                            20'-0"
                                                                    MEASUREMENTS




                                                   4'-6"
                                                                    OVERALL SIGN: 20’H x 11’ 2”W
                                                                             4'-6"H
                                                                    SIGNBOX: 4’H      x 9'W
                                                                                 x 9’ 11”W
                                                                    TENANT LOGO: 7’ wide




                                                           20'-0"
                                                                        ADD AN ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                          MONUMENT
                                                                        SIGN TO THIS LOCATION

                                                                                                                                                                 12'-3"




                                           MEASUREMENTS
                                                          20'H
                                           OVERALL SIGN: 17’ 1”H xx 14'W
                                                                    10’ 6”W
                                                     14'H
                                           SIGNBOX: 11’    x 8'W
                                                        10”H x 7’W




                                                                                                                                                                                                           20'-0"
                                                                8'-0"




                                                                                                           DSignage
                                                                                                          Signage
                                                                                                          GE
                                                                                               DEVELOPMENT
                15'-6"


                                  15'-6"
       20'-0"


                         20'-0"




                                                                                                    20'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                     DIRECTIONAL SIGNAGE

                                                                                                                                                                                                     MULTITENANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ARRIVAL/DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                      DIRECTIONAL SIGNAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                     DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                     SIGNAGE        SIGNAGE
                                                                                                                                                  MEASUREMENTS
                                                                                                                                                     MEASUREMENTS                                     MULTITENANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ARRIVAL/DEVELOPMENT
                                                            14'-0"                                                                                                                                            Arrival/Development
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ARRIVAL/DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                     DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                      DEVELOPMENT     ID SIGNAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SIGNAGE    IDSign
                                                                                                                                                  OVERALL SIGN:SIGN:
                                                                                                                                                      OVERALL    20'H
                                                                                                                                                                17’ 1”H xx 14'W
                                                                                                                                                                      14’H 10’
                                                                                                                                                                            x 8’6”W
                                                                                                                                                                                 7”W                  SIGNAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                     SIGNAGE
                                                                                                                                                            14'H 9’
                                                                                                                                                        SIGNBOX: x 9”H
                                                                                                                                                                    8'W x 7’W                         DEVELOPMENT ID SIGNAGE
                                                                                                                                                        NOTE: FINAL SIGN HEIGHT STILL TBD
                                                City of Holladay
                                      Community and Economic Development
                                                 Planning and Zoning

                         PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
                                                  March 3rd 2025

ITEM # 3
Request: Commercial Site plan – Concept and Preliminary Level Reviews
Project: “Royal Holladay Hills Block H, I and J
Address: 1947, 1949, 1965, 1975 and 1977 East Rodeo Walk Drive
Applicant: Kathy Olson, Applicant and Steve Petersen, Owner
File No.: 19-9-19-11
Notice: Mailed and posted Notice on February 20th 2026
Staff: Jonathan Teerlink, CED Director

GOVERNING ORDINANCES:
13.65.070(C)(D)                  REGIONAL MIXED-USE ZONE (RM-U)
13.03.030                        APPLICANTION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS
13.06                            ADMINISTRATIVE & DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCEDURES
13.08.080                        SITE PLAN - STANDARDS
SDMP,2007                        SITE DEVELOPMENT MASTER PLAN (SDMP)


REQUIRED PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION: Administrative
Public hearing to be held. As this application is for development improvements for a mixed-use site plan, the PC
shall make two separate motions, Concept and Preliminary, to either approve or to continue discussion for this
application. All motions require findings which support the decision. As directed by ordinance, applications shall
be approved if the Land Use Authority finds Substantial Evidence of compliance with applicable requirements.
Holladay Ord. 13.06.050.B2 and 13.08

SUMMARY
According to the approved SDMP, 2007 and subdivision plan for the Royal Holladay Hills development site,
applicant, Steve Peterson proposes improvements details at Blocks H, I and J. This phase of development
encompasses approximately 11.5 acres or ~20% of Holladay Hills site. Mr. Peterson and design representatives
will present a site layout and development plans for multiple tenants and associated parking. Review of this
phase is subject to the land use provisions of the, “Open” Land Use District (O Zone) o the SDMP. The “O” Zone
is considered the most intense land use zone within this master planned development, offering the widest range
of allowed land uses and the tallest building heights (90 feet). In this case, the entire 3.5 acres is proposed to be
improved for multiple tenants and associated parking for the site.

       60,000 sqft athletic club and related outside amenities
       405 stall parking structure
       3 retail buildings
       Landscaping




“RHH – Block H I J” Site plan Concept &Preliminary Review
                                                                                                         Page 1 of 3
                                                   City of Holladay
                                       Community and Economic Development
                                                   Planning and Zoning

TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTE ANALYSIS
Review of this application has been determined by the CED Directed to be complete and determined to provide all
necessary elements to be reviewed by the Planning Commission as required in Holladay Code §13.08.010 .

The TRC is satisfied that the land use elements (zone compliance) of a preliminary site development plan proposed for Block
H, I and J provide all information needed for review of the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission is requested to
provide a review an determination on compliance with a site plan only which conforms with the requirements of the SDMP
and site development standards of §13.08.080

TRC recommends that the following items be highlighted by the PC and discussed with the application as they are found to
be critical elements of SDMP compliance

    •   Land Uses, Page 3
             a. All proposed uses shall conform to Permitted land use table within O Zone,
                          The applicant has provided the name of the primary tenant, however the commission should
                             confirm that all uses within these blocks conform to those listed in the SDMP
    •   Street Access, Page 10 and 11
             a. Thoroughfares and internal driveways are to be provided internally via new, private streets an driveways.
                          TRC finds that the driveway bisecting the 3 block is not shown or implied in the SDMP (page
                             10). However, the driveway does improve traffic circulation and provide more landscaped
                             street frontage to break up these large block, more than previously contemplated.
    •   Building Massing, page 6 and Commercial Intensity, page 1
             a. Blocks H I and J provide a maximum building heights at 4 stories
                          The TRC is satisfied that the elevations of building provided are below this 4-story limit.
             b. maximum retail square footage
                 is dispersed across entire site
                 (57 acres)
    •   Architecture, page 16
             a. Design guidelines are given
                 along with a palette of styles
                          At the time of
                             submittal, the TRC
                             and concerns with
                             proposed elements
                             not meeting the
                             statement provide –
                             see inset
    •   Parking, page 8,
             a. Parking is required at 1 stall per
                 200 square feet. This site is
                 proposed to provide the 405-
                 stall primary parking structure
                 intended to be used for all uses
                 within the site.
    •   Landscaping plans are provided and
        propose 131+ new trees and various
        landscaping features around the site.



“RHH – Block H I J” Site plan Concept &Preliminary Review
                                                                                                              Page 2 of 3
                                                    City of Holladay
                                        Community and Economic Development
                                                    Planning and Zoning


RECOMMENDATION
The required submittals for preliminary site development plan at Block H I and J are found by the TRC to be complete as per
the City’s submission standards, site plan development provisions, the R-M/U zone regulations and SDMP site development
standards. The TRC recommends the Planning Commission to hold the required public hearing and moderate a discussion
with the applicants on the details of the development plan. The TRC recommends that the application may be approved
and strongly requests that potential PC decisions be accompanied by findings.

As per Holladay Ord. §13.08.010 (B3), final approvals shall be determined by the TRC as engineering and civil details are the
last elements to be finalized upon a preliminary approval.

SUGGESTION MOTIONS
“I motion to (approve_deny_continue) the PRELIMINARY SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN FOR BLOCKS H, I and J of the “Royal
Holladay Hills Development” located in the R-M/U zone located at 1947, 1949, 1965, 1975 and 1977 East Rodeo Walk Drive
with FINAL SITE PLAN & PLAT approvals to be delegated to staff. Motion is based on the following findings.

    1) Proposal provides compliance to applicable review standards provided in Holladay Ord §13.08.080(E)
    2) Applicant has provided evidence that all proposed uses can be serviced by all life safety utilities
    3) All development details and all related components comply with the R-M/U zone & SDMP as a master planned
       project

Condition of Approval
   1) In accordance with §13.08.010(E) FINAL verification of all details discussed in this meeting and final civil site
        development approvals shall be by the Land Use Authority (TRC). All final civil development standards of review, as
        required by Holladay engineering shall be submitted by the applicant to the CED Department and finalized by this
        step prior to any site improvements.




“RHH – Block H I J” Site plan Concept &Preliminary Review
                                                                                                                 Page 3 of 3
                     NOTICE OF A PUBLIC HEARING
          PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN – HOLLADAY HILLS “BLOCK H I J”

Date:                          Tuesday, March 3rd 2026
Time:                          As close to 6:00 pm as possible
Location:                      City Hall – City Council Chambers
Hearing Body:                  Planning Commission

Notice is hereby given that the City of Holladay Planning Commission will
conduct a public hearing during their review of retail, athletic center and
parking development improvements for “BLOCK H I & J ” within “Royal
Holladay Hills” mixed-use development in the R/M-U zone located at
approx.. 1950 East Rodeo Walk Drive. All considerations will be reviewed
by the Planning Commission for compliance with the SDMP (2007) and
Holladay Ordinance 13.65.070(C).

   **No zone or ordinance change is proposed in conjunction with this application. **

Additional information regarding this item & instructions how to join this
meeting remotely can be found on the City’s website and on the posted
agenda, prior to the meeting. Interested parties are encouraged to watch
the video stream of the meeting on the City of Holladay Website.
Please submit comments via email by 5:00 pm March 2nd to Jonathan
Teerlink, jteerlink@holladayut.gov Emailed comments received by the
designated times will be forwarded to the Commission prior to the meeting.

ATTENTION: This notice was mailed on February 20th 2025 by order of the Community and Economic Development
Director, Jonathan Teerlink, to all residents within 500 feet from the subject property. If you are not the owner of your
residence, please notify the owner regarding this matter. Thank you.




                       NOTICE OF A PUBLIC HEARING
            PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN – HOLLADAY HILLS “BLOCK H I J”


 Date:                           Tuesday, March 3rd 2026
 Time:                           As close to 6:00 pm as possible
 Location:                       City Hall – City Council Chambers
 Hearing Body:                   Planning Commission
Notice is hereby given that the City of Holladay Planning Commission will
conduct a public hearing during their review of retail, athletic center and
parking development improvements for “BLOCK H I & J ” within “Royal
Holladay Hills” mixed-use development in the R/M-U zone located at
approx.. 1950 East Rodeo Walk Drive. All considerations will be reviewed
by the Planning Commission for compliance with the SDMP (2007) and
Holladay Ordinance 13.65.070(C).

   **No zone or ordinance change is proposed in conjunction with this application. **

 Additional information regarding this item & instructions how to join this
 meeting remotely can be found on the City’s website and on the posted
 agenda, prior to the meeting. Interested parties are encouraged to watch
 the video stream of the meeting on the City of Holladay Website.

 Please submit comments via email by 5:00 pm March 2nd to Jonathan
 Teerlink, jteerlink@holladayut.gov Emailed comments received by the
 designated times will be forwarded to the Commission prior to the meeting.

ATTENTION: This notice was mailed on February 20th 2025 by order of the Community and Economic Development
Director, Jonathan Teerlink, to all residents within 500 feet from the subject property. If you are not the owner of your
residence, please notify the owner regarding this matter. Thank you.
                         NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the City of Holladay Planning Commission will
conduct a public hearing on March 3rd 2026. During this meeting the Planning
Commission will review concept and preliminary level site plan details for the
development of, and related improvements at “BLOCK H, I and J” within “Royal
Holladay Hills” mixed-use development in the R/M-U zone located approximately at
1800 E Rodeo Walk Drive. All considerations will be reviewed by the Planning
Commission for compliance with the SDMP (2007) and Holladay Ordinance
13.65.070(C).Chapter 13.14.040.

The proposed amendment is available for public inspection on the City’s website
www.holladayut.gov and at the Community Development Dept. during normal business
hours.

The public can remotely watch the Live Stream of the meeting. To provide a public
comment or to comment on any public hearing, you have the following options:
1. In-person attendance at Holladay City Hall or
2. Email your comments by 5:00 PM on the date of the meeting to
cmarsh@holladayut.gov or call 801527-3890.




CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I, Stephanie N. Carlson, the City Recorder of the City of Holladay, certify that the
above agenda notice was posted at City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov the
Utah Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn, and was emailed to the Salt Lake
Tribune and Desert News and others who have indicated interest.

DATE POSTED: [ date ]
Stephanie N. Carlson MMC,
City Recorder City of Holladay
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
